AdvertisementSupported byBy Lela Moore and Michael GoldHere are the top 10 comments of the week on our digital platforms, as selected by our readers and the journalists who moderate nearly every comment. Some comments were edited for length and clarity.If you would prefer to read comments from this week that have nothing at all to do with James Comey or Donald Trump, we put this together for you.1. It’s not unpatriotic to refuse to be loyal to the president. It is unpatriotic to demand that public servants serve the president and no one else. If Trump wants absolute loyalty he should start paying for it out of his own personal fortune, not with our tax dollars. Until then, I want my government to ask questions instead of bending its collective knees to Trump’s demands.— Hen3ry in New York, reacting to an article about the testimony of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, before the Senate Intelligence Committee.This comment received more than 300 reader recommendations. 2. The one thing Trump got right is that Comey is a showboat. He seems to take, and make, every opportunity just to get his mug on television and in the news. There is a reason the F.B.I. conducts its investigations in secret.— Jam77 in New York.3. This is what women feel all the time — we’re always told that we are at fault for not being stronger in pushing back, saying “no.” Intimidation is real! And Comey’s 6’ 8”!— Amy Cheung von Haam on The New York Times’s Facebook page, responding to an Op-Ed about Mr. Comey saying he felt uneasy and hesitant to directly confront his boss.4. For the last 11 months those who voted to stay in the E.U., which includes me, have had their faces rubbed in it by the media and leaders who fronted the leave campaign. It seemed a joyless victory, which was only ever, at its root, about keeping the Tories in power. For a time any dissenting view was called ‘unpatriotic’. There was no indication when this was going to end. Now, at least, it seems less likely that the hard-core leavers will get things all their own way and the vote suggests that progressiveness is not dead yet.— Stan Cullerne-Bown in Nottingham, England, responding to a  callout on our website asking for British voters’ reactions to the election results.5. I would welcome another election as I would try harder to convince people not to be scared of Brexit. We can be part of Europe without being under its control. Young British people should have the chance of the best free education enabling them to get fulfilling careers. Every family to have a decent home, enough food and social services as befitting the World’s 6th largest economy.— Deborah Norman in Cornwall, England.6. As a scientist and teacher, I applaud Mr. Sutter’s efforts. Of course it’s exasperating to see such strong scientific evidence rejected. But Gwen’s sincerity and intelligence, and her real distress, come through clearly, as do the terrible economic pressures on the people of Wellston. Sadly, in the end all of us and our children are going to be affected by climate change, whatever we believe about its causes.— A Texan in Dallas, reacting to an article about science teachers whose students push back against lessons about climate change. This comment received more than 900 reader recommendations. 7. I would rather spend eight days in jail than eight days at the mercy of U.S.-based airlines.— Ernest Murphy on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about a Times reporter who spent eight days flying around the United States to chronicle the current state of air travel.8. There is absolutely no excuse for highly-trusted intelligence workers to decide on their own to disclose information that might be highly damaging to their nation. And the effort to prosecute leakers must continue to be bipartisan.— Sven Svensson in Reykjavik, reacting to an article about Reality Leigh Winner, an intelligence contractor who was charged with sending a classified report to the news media.This comment received more than 20 reader responses. 9. Every single person on the road should read this article. There is not enough respect/knowledge about semi trucks. All drivers need to understand the particulars of driving those big trucks. And thank you to all you semi drivers out there, driving safe on the roads, and getting a job so vital to the economy, done.— Stephanie Petersen on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about long-distance truckers giving advice to drivers of cars.10. I can say without reservation that this review is about ten times more entertaining than the picture and, mercifully, about 102 minutes shorter.— RDR in Mexico, reacting to a movie review of the remake of “The Mummy,” starring Tom Cruise.This comment received more than 100 reader recommendations. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS