AdvertisementSupported byThe ShortlistBy Mason B. WilliamsCITY ON A GRIDHow New York Became New YorkBy Gerard Koeppel296 pp. Da Capo, $29.99.Whence Manhattan’s famous rectilinear grid — that “old inconceivably bourgeois scheme of composition and distribution,” as Henry James put it, that for two centuries has shaped city life so profoundly? Historians have answered this question in two ways. In one telling, the grid is the product of the republican revolution: In place of royal irregularity, New Yorkers substituted a democratic spatial order in which all blocks were equal. In the other, the grid is simply an engine for property development and speculation.Koeppel, a historian, offers a third possibility: The plan for the famous grid, announced in March 1811, was rather “an excuse for a plan, arrived at with little thinking and with time running out.” Its origins lie in an earlier plan that divided the Common Lands of mid-Manhattan into five-acre parcels, cut by three broad north-south thoroughfares (the forerunners of Park, Fifth and Sixth Avenues) as well as 60-foot-wide east-west streets. A decade later, the State Legislature empowered a three-man commission to pre-empt private street development. But the commissioners were slow to engage in their work and fell back on the Common Lands grid. The plan, Koeppel argues, “was simply not something that had been deeply thought out.”None of this exactly contradicts the familiar tales of commercial ambition and republican predilection for order and equality. What Koeppel does instead is to give us the best account to date of the process by which an odd amalgamation of democracy and capitalism got written into New York’s physical DNA.FUN CITYJohn Lindsay, Joe Namath, and How Sports Saved New York in the 1960sBy Sean Deveney348 pp. Sports Publishing, $24.99.Poor John Lindsay. His first day as mayor, in 1966, the transit workers went on strike, bringing city life to a crawl. “This is a fun and exciting city even when it’s a struck city,” Lindsay claimed. The “Fun City” tag would stick, but sardonically, conjuring up the variety of urban ills — municipal service disruptions, street crime, snarled traffic — that Lindsay couldn’t seem to do much about. By the end of Lindsay’s first term, plans for a civilian police review board and community control of schools had stoked a powerful white backlash.For a season, Deveney shows in this rollicking book, New York’s upstart sports teams helped break this civic fever. Led by the hedonistic slinger Joe Namath, the Jets shocked the football world with their Super Bowl III upset of the Baltimore Colts in 1969. That autumn, the once-risible Mets won the World Series. The Knicks capped off one of the greatest sports seasons any city had ever enjoyed when they took the N.B.A. title the following spring. “The Jets, Mets and Knicks didn’t fix New York,” Deveney writes, “but for a stretch, at least, their successes . . . brought together a divided city in which residents seemed increasingly unable or unwilling to understand each other.”There is an interesting story to be written about the emergence of sports as big business in New York’s late-20th-century transformation. One suspects that, like Lindsay’s, it is a poignant one.THE CON MENHustling in New York City By Terry Williams and Trevor B. Milton 276 pp. Columbia University, $27.95.“A crow thieves; a fox cheats; a weasel outwits; a man diddles,” Poe wrote. “To diddle is his destiny.” But if the impulse to live well by means less than fair is perhaps universal, the social contexts within which these hustles and cons unfold are ever changing, offering up a mirror to the city.Hustlers and cons are “sage opportunists,” the sociologists Williams and Milton write, “because they are able to match their abilities exactly to the opportunities presented by the city’s shifting economy.” A handful of case studies show us where those opportunities lie: Otis sells pirated DVDs that otherwise would be out of his buyers’ price range; Lee peddles water at busy intersections, believing “this is all there is for young men like him.” If “The Con Men” lacks the depth and focus of a work like Mitchell Duneier’s “Sidewalk,” it makes up part of the margin in breadth of coverage.“You wouldn’t want to live in a world where you couldn’t be conned,” Williams and Milton note (quoting the illusionist Ricky Jay). But who would want to be a con? Williams and Milton, following up with their informants to see what they are doing now, were unable to track down a majority of them. But they did locate Lee, the water salesman, who now teaches modern dance at a city middle school.GOWANUSBrooklyn’s Curious Canal By Joseph Alexiou 399 pp. New York University, $29.95.Alexiou begins this, the first full account of the Gowanus Canal’s history, with Thomas Wolfe’s ode to wafting scents of “melted glue, burned rubber, and smoldering rags, the odors of a boneyard horse, long dead, the incense of putrefying offal, the fragrance of deceased, decaying cats, old tomatoes, rotten cabbage, and prehistoric eggs.” How did the residents of South Brooklyn stand it? Wolfe asked. “Well, one gets used to it.”Before it was the Gowanus Canal, it was Gowanus Creek, a tidal estuary known for its oysters. In the mid-19th century, Brooklynites turned the quiet inlet into a bustling shipping canal — as well as a “conduit for sewage and storm water.” The Gowanus served as such into the mid-20th century, when the displacement of shipping by automotive transport cut deeply into its use. The nadir came in the mid-1960s when, for mysterious reasons, the Gowanus flushing tunnel — which pumped fresh water into the canal — broke down, rendering the canal entirely stagnant.By the end of the 20th century, mercifully, the city installed a new flushing tunnel, relieving the worst of the stench. (“Prior to the flushing tunnel, a dead dog would just float back and forth with the tides between Third Street and Carroll for maybe a week,” a man told The Times.) Alexiou ends with the fascinating struggle for control of the continuing cleanup effort. This is a loving and skillfully rendered portrait of an important and oddly charming part of New York.Mason B. Williams teaches history and leadership studies at Williams College. He is the author of “City of Ambition: FDR, La Guardia, and the Making of Modern New York.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS