AdvertisementSupported byFRONT PAGEAn article on Sunday about delays in the F.B.I. inquiry into sexual assault allegations against Lawrence G. Nassar referred incorrectly to Dr. Nassar’s association with Holt High School. He worked there, but it was not his alma mater. The article also misstated the number of medals Aly Raisman won at the Rio Olympics. It was three, not six (she has six Olympic medals over all).INTERNATIONALAn article on Monday about Turkey’s military offensive in Syria misstated the connection between Al Qaeda and Hayat Tahrir al-Sham. Though the groups were once allied, they are no longer affiliated.NEW YORKAn article on Monday about an annual ceremony to memorialize four chaplains who died in World War II misidentified one of the four. He was Rabbi Alexander D. Goode, not Alexander B. Goode.BUSINESS DAYAn article on Tuesday about the reasons behind the most recent downturn in the stock market misstated the context of a comment from Scott Minerd, the chief investment officer of Guggenheim Partners. His comment was given in an interview with Reuters, not written in a note to investors.•An article on Saturday about a report by Exxon Mobil predicting strong demand for oil and gas despite renewed global efforts to reduce carbon emissions misstated the portion of Exxon Mobil’s business that the company estimates would be affected by strict climate policies. It is undeveloped resources representing less than 5 percent of the company’s property by value, not less than 5 percent of its reserves.SPORTSAn article on Tuesday about Michigan State athletes who said they were sexually abused by Lawrence G. Nassar misidentified the sports team on which these athletes competed. It was the women’s rowing team, not the women’s volleyball team.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS