AdvertisementSupported byBy Alexis SoloskiOur guide to plays and musicals coming to New York stages — and a few last-chance picks of shows that are about to close. Our reviews of open shows are at nytimes.com/reviews/theater.‘A BRIEF HISTORY OF WOMEN’ at 59E59 Theaters (previews start on April 26; opens on May 2). In Alan Ayckbourn’s latest play, the showpiece of Brits Off Broadway, a manor house becomes a girls’ school and then an arts center and then a hotel. As walls don’t tend to talk, Mr. Ayckbourn explores these permutations by tracing the adventures of a 17-year-old footman (Antony Eden) up through the decades.212-279-4200, 59e59.org‘HARRY POTTER AND THE CURSED CHILD, PARTS 1 AND 2’ at the Lyric Theater (in previews; opens on April 22). Accio tickets! The boy wizard is all grown up in the New York production of this two-part play, written by Jack Thorne and based on a story by him, the director John Tiffany and J.K. Rowling. Starring Jamie Parker and Noma Dumezweni, it explores fate, loss and inheritance, with plenty of magic.harrypottertheplay.com/us‘HENRY V’ at the Public Theater (previews start on April 23; opens on April 27). The Public Theater’s Mobile Shakespeare Unit goes once more unto the breach, bringing a brisk distillation of the Shakespeare drama to prisons, shelters and rec centers, then returning home to Astor Place. The playwright and director Robert O’Hara leads the charge for this historical play, with a cast that includes Carolyn Kettig and Zenzi Williams.212-967-7555, publictheater.org‘THE ICEMAN COMETH’ at the Bernard B. Jacobs Theater (in previews; opens on April 26). Not a pipe dream: The Oscar- and Tony-winning actor Denzel Washington has returned to Broadway to star in this gin-soaked Eugene O’Neill masterwork. Mr. Washington stars as Hickey, the traveling salesman who defies the regulars at Harry Hope’s flophouse to face up to their dissipated lives. George C. Wolfe directs.212-239-6200, icemanonbroadway.com‘THE METROMANIACS’ at the Duke on 42nd Street (in previews; opens on April 22). For Red Bull Theater, David Ives, a playwright who knows his way around a couplet, adapts an obscure 18th-century French farce about poetry-mad Parisians. Under Michael Kahn’s direction, the actors Adam LeFevre, Amelia Pedlow and Christian Conn attempt the rhyme scheme.646-223-3010, dukeon42.org‘PARADISE BLUE’ at the Pershing Square Signature Center (previews start on April 24; opens on May 14). The playwright Dominique Morisseau has the blues. The first play of her Signature residency is set in a Detroit jazz club in 1949, its spotlight trained on a trumpeter, his longtime lover and a mysterious newcomer. Reviewing a previous production, also directed by Ruben Santiago-Hudson, Laura Collins-Hughes wrote that this pleasurably overloaded drama “upends expectations.”212-244-7529, signaturetheatre.org‘SAINT JOAN’ at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater (in previews; opens on April 25). The original fearless girl, Joan of Arc returns to the stage in George Bernard Shaw’s play about the medieval French military hero and Roman Catholic saint who may or may not have been guided by the voice of God. The divine Condola Rashad stars in Daniel Sullivan’s production.212-239-6200, manhattantheatreclub.com‘SUMMER: THE DONNA SUMMER MUSICAL’ at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater (in previews; opens on April 23). Do you feel love? The director Des McAnuff trades Jersey boys for a Massachusetts girl in this musical with a book by him, Robert Cary and Colman Domingo. LaChanze, Ariana DeBose and Storm Lever perform the chanteuse at different moments in her career: Diva Donna, Disco Donna and Duckling Donna.800-745-3000, thedonnasummermusical.com‘TRANSFERS’ at the Lucille Lortel Theater (in previews; opens on April 23). Getting out of the South Bronx and into a great college isn’t just a matter of geography. In Lucy Thurber’s play, directed by Jackson Gay, two young men are vying for a place in spite of present circumstances and past actions. The production stars Juan Castano and Ato Blankson-Wood, a standout in last summer’s “As You Like It.”866-811-4111, mcctheater.org‘TRAVESTIES’ at the American Airlines Theater (in previews; opens on April 24). If you stopped into a Zurich cafe for rösti in 1917, you might have run into James Joyce. Or Vladmir Lenin. Or Tristan Tzara. In Tom Stoppard’s wildly erudite historical comedy, great men dash in and out of a Wildean romp loosely based on coincidence. When Patrick Marber’s production, starring Tom Hollander, ran in London, Matt Wolf praised its “mind-bending splendor.”212-719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org‘FLIGHT’ at the McKittrick Hotel (closes on April 20). The young boys at the heart of this theater piece in miniature from Vox Motus reach the end of their hazardous journey. Laura Collins-Hughes wrote, “Though enchanting sounds like the wrong word for a work of art as intrinsically painful and political as ‘Flight,’ enchanting it is.”866-811-4111, mckittrickhotel.com‘OLD STOCK’ at 59E59 (closes on April 22). This immigrant love story set to klezmer music finishes its run and climbs back into its shipping container. Created by Hannah Moscovitch, Ben Caplan and Christian Barry, and based on the lives of Ms. Moscovitch’s great-grandparents, the play is “a reminder — salutary, obvious — that there’s a face behind each immigration form.”212-279-4200, 59e59.org‘PAY NO ATTENTION TO THE GIRL’ at the Doxsee (closes on April 21). Scheherazade will spin the last of her stories when Target Margin’s riff on the 1,001 tales plays its final Arabian night. Ben Brantley wrote that “if this show is inevitably and openly defined by a 21st-century gaze, it also revels in the timeless and transcendent power of its source material.”866-811-4111, targetmargin.org‘ROCKTOPIA’ at the Broadway Theater (closes on April 29). Put those lighters in the air as this symphonic mishmash of classical, rock and pop, created by the singer Rob Evan and the conductor Randall Craig Fleischer, plays its final numbers. While Elisabeth Vincentelli praised the singing, she wrote that “the real problem is the set list’s utter blandness.”212-239-6200, rocktopia.com‘YERMA’ at the Park Avenue Armory (closes on April 21). The armory will become a less warlike place when the harrowing update of Federico Garcia Lorca’s tragedy of infertility comes to term. Of Billie Piper, who stars in Simon Stone’s adaptation, Ben Brantley wrote, “This is one of those performances that leave you bruised, breathless and grateful for an experience you wouldn’t have missed for the world.”212-933-5812, armoryonpark.orgAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS