AdvertisementSupported byThe Treasury’s schedule of financing this week includes Monday’s regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday.At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.05 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 1.14 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.96 percent.The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues, valued at $50 million or more, are scheduled for pricing this week:Florida Department of Environmental Protection, $75.5 million of tax allocation bonds. Competitive.Louisiana, $302.7 million of unlimited tax general obligation bonds. Competitive.Michigan, $79 million of unlimited tax general obligation refinancing bonds. Competitive.Prince George’s County, Md., $104 million of certificates of participation. Competitive.Maryland Department of Transportation, $500 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.Seattle Municipal Light and Power, $385.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.Shoreline School District No. 412, Wash., $60.2 million of unlimited tax general obligation refinancing bonds. Competitive.Hamilton County, Ohio, $90.1 million of limited tax general obligation refinancing bonds. Competitive.New York, $191.5 million of Series B-2 unlimited tax general obligation taxable bonds. Competitive.New York, $58.5 million of Series B-3 unlimited tax general obligation taxable bonds. Competitive.Arizona Industrial Development Authority, $55 million of education revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.Arlington, Tex., $108 million of senior lien special tax revenue refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.Colorado Springs, Colo., $237.6 million of utilities system revenue refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.Colorado State University System Board of Governors, $111.9 million of system enterprise revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.Fort Bend Independent School District, Tex., $95 million of variable rate refinancing bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus.Hurst-Euless-Bedford Independent School District, Tex., $76.9 million of unlimited tax refinancing bonds. Raymond James.Idaho Energy Resources Authority, $200 million of Bonneville Corporation Project No. 1 transmission facilities revenue bonds. Bank of America Merrill Lynch.Jacksonville, Fla., $77.8 million of health care facilities revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.Louisiana Public Facilities Authority, $91.1 million of lease revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.Memphis, $155 million of electric, gas and water systems revenue bonds. Raymond James.Minnesota Housing Finance Agency, $125 million of homeownership finance bonds. RBC Capital Markets.New Hampshire Health and Education Facilities Authority, $58.6 million of Catholic Medical Center issue bonds. Jefferies.New York City, $855.6 million of general obligation bonds. Siebert Cisneros Shank.Ohio, $115 million of turnpike revenue refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.Oregon, $51.4 million of general obligation bonds. Goldman Sachs.Reedy Creek Improvement District, Fla., $195 million of ad valorem tax bonds. Bank of America Merrill Lynch.State Center College District, Calif., $70 million of 2016 election bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus.Tennessee School Bond Authority, $402 million of Higher Educational Facilities Second Program bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, $110 million of taxable general revenue refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan securities.The University of North Carolina at Charlotte, $81.1 million of general revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.University of Minnesota Regents, $424.8 million of general obligation, general obligation refinancing and general obligation taxable refinancing bonds. RBC Capital Markets.University of Texas System Board of Regents, $250 million of revenue financing system bonds. Bank of America Merrill Lynch.Upper Santa Clara Valley Joint Power Authority, Calif., $50.3 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.West Valley-Mission Community College District, Calif., $100 million of 2012 election general obligation bonds. Morgan Stanley.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS