AdvertisementSupported byThe Treasury’s schedule of financing this week includes Monday’s regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday.At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.03 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 1.13 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.92 percent.The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues, valued at $50 million or more, are scheduled for pricing this week:Florida Management Services Department, $187.8 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.New Mexico, $75.8 million of severance tax revenue bonds. Competitive.New Mexico, $153.6 million of unlimited tax general obligation bonds. Competitive.New Mexico, $154 million of unlimited tax general obligation refinancing bonds. Competitive.New York Dormitory Authority, $354.7 million of Series A sales tax revenue bonds. Competitive.New York Dormitory Authority, $448.7 million of Series B sales tax revenue bonds. Competitive.New York Dormitory Authority, $473.1 million of Series C sales tax revenue bonds. Competitive.New York Dormitory Authority, $72.8 million of taxable sales tax revenue bonds. Competitive.Virginia College Building Authority, $352.3 million of Series C revenue bonds. Competitive.Virginia College Building Authority, $146.1 million of Series C revenue bonds. (Non-callable.) Competitive.Virginia College Building Authority, $100.5 million of Series D revenue bonds. Competitive.Beaufort County, S.C., $51 million of unlimited tax general obligation bonds. Competitive.North Carolina, $554 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.Pinelands Regional School District, N.J., Board of Education, $53.7 million of unlimited tax general obligation bonds. Competitive.Alaska Housing Finance Corporation, $143 million of debt securities. Jefferies.California Educational Facilities Authority, $123.1 million of revenue bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.Chicago Transit Authority, $230.1 million of capital grant receipts revenue refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley.Connecticut Health and Educational Facilities Authority, $250 million of Yale University Issue revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.Fort Bend County, Tex., $51.4 million of combination tax and revenue certificates of obligation. RBC Capital Markets.Georgia Road and Tollway Authority, $353 million of federal highway grant anticipation revenue and revenue refinancing bonds and federal highway grant reimbursement revenue and revenue refinancing bonds. Bank of America Merrill Lynch.Indiana Finance Authority, $115.5 million of hospital revenue refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.Massachusetts, $200 million of general obligation bonds. Barclays Capital.Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency, $121.6 million of single family housing revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.Monroe County, N.Y., Industrial Development Agency, $125 million of school facilities revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.New Jersey Turnpike Authority, $597.7 million of turnpike revenue bonds. Loop Capital Markets.Oregon, $55.8 million of convention center hotel 17 metropolitan dedicated tax revenue bonds. Piper Jaffray.Pearland, Tex., $54.9 million of permanent improvement and refinancing bonds. HilltopSecurities.Pearland, Tex., $60.4 million of water and sewer system revenue and refinancing bonds. HilltopSecurities.Public Finance Authority, Wis., $61.5 million of taxable revenue refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.San Diego Regional Airport Authority, $310.4 million of subordinate airport revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District, Ore., $77 million of capital grant receipt revenue refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.United Independent School District, Tex., $120 million of unlimited tax school building bonds. Frost Bank.Virginia Small Business Financing Authority, $244.7 million of senior lien revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS