AdvertisementSupported byLooking BackBy David W. Dunlap“A Resolution to Impeach Richard M. Nixon as President of the United States,” said the headline across a two-page political advertisement in The New York Times.It had nothing to do with Watergate.In fact, the break-in at the Democratic National Committee office in the Watergate complex — the “third-rate burglary” that ultimately doomed President Nixon — hadn’t even occurred on May 31, 1972, when the ad ran.Instead, the National Committee for Impeachment had paid The Times $17,850 for space to urge the House of Representatives to impeach Mr. Nixon for having unconstitutionally arrogated to himself the power to declare war in Indochina. The group, headed by Randolph G. Phillips, sought an immediate end to the Vietnam War.Down in The Times’s basement pressroom at 229 West 43rd Street, the men who printed the newspaper were having none of it.President Nixon and the American cause in Indochina were strongly supported by many blue-collar workers. Richard Siemers, the chairman at The Times for the New York Printing Pressmen’s Union, Local 2, said the ad was “traitorous” and “detrimental to the boys in Vietnam and prisoners of war.”The pressmen demanded that The Times remove the ad. The management refused. Then they demanded space in the paper to express their opposition. The management refused again. By this time, the start of the press run had been delayed almost 15 minutes — a critical interval given delivery timetables that required Times trucks get to newsstands, depots, railroad stations and airports on a pinpoint schedule.Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the publisher, was infuriated.“The work stoppage, which involved the use of economic force in an effort to censor the contents of the newspaper, was a challenge to the concept of freedom of expression on which a free press was founded,” Mr. Sulzberger said. “It would have been inconceivable for this newspaper to have yielded to such pressure.”President Nixon, however, was so pleased by the pressmen’s act of revolt that he sent an emissary to stand at the truck docks on West 43rd Street and convey his thanks personally. The emissary, Donald F. Rodgers, also presented a pen inscribed, “Richard M. Nixon, White House,” to Mr. Siemers.Then the government got serious about retaliation.It charged Mr. Phillips’s committee with violating the Federal Election Campaign Act and asked the courts to prohibit the committee’s activities until it had provided finance reports, as required by the act.The crux of the case was the ad’s “honor roll” of Democratic representatives who supported an impeachment resolution, including John Conyers Jr. of Michigan; Ronald V. Dellums of California; and Bella Abzug, Shirley Chisholm, Charles B. Rangel and William F. Ryan of New York. Mr. Phillips’s committee pledged to “devote its resources in funds and publicity” to any candidate for the House who supported the impeachment effort.Because of that, the government argued that the committee was improperly trying to influence Congressional races. More chillingly, it asserted that because Mr. Nixon was a candidate for re-election, his stand on the Vietnam War was a campaign issue. Since the ad sharply criticized the president’s Vietnam policy, the government reasoned, it therefore amounted to an attempt to influence the presidential election.Responding to a related action, James C. Goodale, a senior vice president of The Times, denied that the ad was a “piece of campaign literature.” He said that if the press were required to obtain a certificate of compliance with the Federal Election Campaign Act every time an advertisement made “mere mention” of elected officials, the government would effectively be granted a “veto power over publication.”The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled in favor of the committee on Oct. 30, finding that Mr. Phillips’s group was not a political committee under the election campaign act.In his decision, Judge James L. Oakes — a Nixon appointee — said a serious constitutional question had been posed by the government’s insistence that discussion of the war amounted to regulated election campaigning."On this basis,” he wrote, “every position on any issue, major or minor, taken by anyone would be a campaign issue and any comment upon it in, say, a newspaper editorial or an advertisement would be subject to proscription unless the registration and disclosure regulations of the act in question were complied with.”"On the Government’s thesis every little Audubon Society chapter would be a ‘political committee,’ for ‘environment’ is an issue in one campaign after another. On this basis, too, a Boy Scout troop advertising for membership to combat ‘juvenile delinquency’ or a Golden Age Club promoting ‘senior citizens’ rights’ would fall under the act. The dampening effect on First Amendment rights and the potential for arbitrary administrative action that would result from such a situation would be intolerable.”Eight days later, President Nixon was re-elected by one of the biggest landslides in American history.He was never impeached.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS