
                                        FINDLAY--David B.,Jr. Dave was born in Kansas City, Missouri in 1933 to David Beals Findlay, a third generation art dealer, and Harriet Jones Findlay. His family moved to New York City, then to Darien in 1936, when his father established the David Findlay
                                        Galleries in New York City. In 1943 the Findlays purchased Extown Farm in New Canaan. In 1948 he entered Deerfield Academy as a sophomore, class of &apos;51. He was on the varsity lacrosse, soccer and hockey teams.
                                        He has attended all Deerfield reunions, created an annual Deerfield Dinner in New York City, and enjoyed talking frequently to his classmates as Class Secretary. Dave double majored at Cornell, receiving a BS in
                                        Mechanical Engineering and an MBA in 1955 and was a member of Chi Psi. He worked for IBM in computer sales, then for McKinsey and Co. in New York City. Following a brief stint at the Beech-Nut Corporation, he joined
                                        Lehman Brothers until 1976, when, after 20 years in finance, he joined his brother and sister as a partner in his father&apos;s gallery when it expanded onto Madison Avenue. The business specialized in American
                                        and European paintings and sculpture. In 1982 Dave started his own gallery, the David Findlay Jr Gallery, with a focus on American art. He was proud to have his daughter the fifth generation, Lee Findlay Potter,
                                        join him in its management. In 1973 Dave married the former Mimi Adams from Darien. Dave loved to ski and went cat-skiing at Selkirk Wilderness Skiing in British Columbia forty times, frequently taking a child or
                                        grandchild with him. His other passion was golf: he became a golf member of the Country Club of New Canaan in 1968 and served as its President 2004-06. Subsequently he joined the Sankaty Head Golf Club in Nantucket
                                        and the John&apos;s Island Club in Vero Beach, Florida. He was a great communicator, eschewing emails for telephone calls to children and grandchildren on a regularbasis. He was a trustee of the New Canaan Library
                                        Board from 1968 to 1974, and its President 1971-1973. Together with his wife Mimi, to whom he was married 42 years, he enjoyed a life-long interest in arts, architecture, history and antiques, frequently traveling
                                        on international tours with an academic or arts focus. He loved the out of doors, and recently he traveled with his daughter Lee and her family to Nairobi and with daughter Kim down the Colorado River. David is
                                        survived by his wife Mimi, his brother Peter Findlay of New York City and Salisbury, Connecticut, daughters Kim Findlay of Charlotte, Vermont and Lee Findlay Potter of New York City; step-daughters Sindi Adams Sheers
                                        of McLean, Virginia and Brook Adams Visser of Framingham, Massachusetts, and sons Hal Findlay of Delray Beach, Florida and Michael Findlay of New Haven, Vermont, nineteen grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
                                        A Memorial Service in Celebration of Dave Findlay&apos;s wonderful life will be held on Saturday, October 24, 2015 at 11:00am at the First Presbyterian Church of New Canaan. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that
                                        contributions be made in his name to the David B. Findlay Jr. Scholarship Fund at Deerfield Academy, or to the Herbert F. Johnson Museum at Cornell University. 1/3 