AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Jonathan WolfeUpdated, 9:36 a.m.Good morning on this raindrop-riddled Tuesday.Yet another New York politician may soon be bunking in a federal prison.Sheldon Silver, the former State Assembly speaker, will be sentenced at the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan today.The Democrat, whose district included the Lower East Side, was convicted of, among other things, abusing his office to obtain nearly $4 million in illegal payments.“He was one of the most powerful New York politicians to be convicted in a corruption case in recent years,” said Benjamin Weiser, a reporter covering the case for The Times. “And he could receive one of the highest sentences as well.”If Mr. Silver lands behind bars, he’ll be in familiar company.At least six of his colleagues from the New York State Legislature are in the federal prison system.Mr. Weiser and another Times reporter, Vivian Yee, will be there covering the sentencing, which is to begin at 2 p.m.They’ll be watching to see if any of Mr. Silver’s supporters turn up at the courthouse.And what, if anything, he has to say in the courtroom. Especially in light of an emotional written apology he sent to the judge that didn’t address the facts of the case or the verdict.“It’s a very narrow line to walk — not admitting guilt and profusely apologizing for what you did,” Mr. Weiser said.If you miss the sentencing of this former politician, don’t fret.John L. Sampson, a Senate Democrat, and Dean G. Skelos, the former Republican Senate majority leader, are scheduled to be sentenced this month.Here’s what else is happening:Raindrops keep fallin’ on my head.(This morning, at least.)It’ll be coming down until around lunchtime — with a high near 56 — but the showers will most likely ease up this afternoon.Repeat after B. J. Thomas: The blues they send to meet me won’t defeat me.• “Hamilton” has been nominated for 16 Tony Awards, the most in Broadway history. [New York Times]• Members of the Serbian community mourn the Orthodox Cathedral of St. Sava in Manhattan, which was swallowed by flames on Sunday. [New York Times]• ... The church was a landmark of old New York. [New York Times]• ... And here’s a video of the devastating blaze. [New York Times]• More questions circle a former aide of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who is at the center of an investigation involving improper lobbying and conflicts of interest. [New York Times]• A college student in New Jersey was killed in an attempted robbery at a fraternity house. [New York Times]• A glimpse onto the red carpet at Monday night’s Met Gala. [New York Times]• Lawmakers in New York plan to crack down on online impersonation crimes. [CBS]• Scoreboard: Mets scare Braves, 4-1.• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Tuesday Briefing.•  “The Warriors,” about street gangs in New York City, screens at the Parkchester Library in the Bronx. 5 p.m. [Free]• An evening of music, videos and poetry commemorating the life of Malik Taylor, also known as Phife Dawg, is at the Queens Library at St. Albans in Queens. 6 p.m. [Free]• Learn useful phrases in German, Italian, Japanese or Mandarin at the “Survival Travel Skills Language Sampler” at Rennert New York in Midtown East. 6 p.m. [$10]• Learn about historical brewing methods at “Bach and Beer” at the Rockaway Brewing Company in Long Island City, Queens. 7 p.m. [Pay what you wish to enter, drinks not included]• Olé! A performance of contemporary flamenco dance and music is at BAM Fisher in Downtown Brooklyn. 7:30 p.m. [Tickets start at $25]• Islanders host Lightning, 7 p.m. (NBCS). Yankees at Orioles, 7:05 p.m. (YES). Mets host Braves, 7:10 p.m. (SNY).• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.• Subway  and PATH • Railroads: L.I.R.R., Metro-North, N.J. Transit, Amtrak• Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.• Alternate-side parking: in effect until Thursday.• Ferries: Staten Island Ferry, New York Waterway, East River Ferry• Airports: La Guardia, J.F.K., NewarkSo, was your train on time this morning?At almost 1.8 billion rides a year, subway use is the highest it has been since 1948, our transit reporter Emma G. Fitzsimmons wrote.But so are delays from overcrowding — currently around 20,000 a month.That’s four times as many as in 2012.So no, your luck catching trains has not turned.As Ms. Fitzsimmons notes, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is trying to move things along, including hiring platform controllers — a sort of subway referee.But if you’re not a straphanger, you might not know how squeezed things have become.Don’t believe us? Check out this Facebook Live event from earlier this morning at the 86th Street subway station on the Upper East Side.New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late morning. You can receive it via email.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS