AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Jonathan WolfeUpdated, 10:02 a.m.Good morning on this sopping Friday.Mother’s Day brunch looks damp.So does much of the weekend.May has only just begun, but with rain forecast every day up to this point, the month is shaping up to be a wet one.It’ll be coming down in buckets for much of Friday, at a not-so-toasty 53 degrees, with thunderstorms possible in the morning and a  coastal flood warning in effect.As if that’s not enough to make you wish you’d stayed in bed, winds could gust as high as 22 miles per hour.Hair forecast: rather hopeless. Just accept the drenched dog or rain-soaked rat look.(There’s a chance things may lighten up a bit this evening, but don’t bank on it.)The culprit of this week’s soggy weather, said Carlie Buccola, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service, is an omega block.Sounds ominous.“We’re stuck in this pattern of cloudy, cool and rainy days because of a stationary trough of low pressure over us,” she said.It’s not moving along anytime soon, with the sun expected to peek out only after you kiss your mother goodbye on Sunday afternoon.If the wet weather is poised to ruin your weekend plans, look on the bright side: Until recently, we’ve been going through a mini-drought.Portions of the Northeast are currently “abnormally dry,” according to the United States Drought Monitor. Steve Fybish, a local weather historian recently called our newsroom to point out to us that, taken together, this March and April had been the driest on record.So all this rain is quenching a thirst. Somewhere, someone or something is benefiting.Here’s what else is happening:• Atlantic City pays about $1 million a year to provide pensions for retired lifeguards, and some auditors and legislators aren’t happy about it. [New York Times]• L train riders, worried that closing the subway line could paralyze Williamsburg and other Brooklyn neighborhoods, quizzed top M.T.A. officials on the plans. [New York Times]• Mayor Bill de Blasio’s press secretary says she will quit, the latest sign that the administration is struggling with its message. [New York Times]• The five-cent fee on plastic bags, which we told you a bit about on Thursday, has been approved by the City Council. [New York Times]• Sailors partaking in this weekend’s America’s Cup series face tough conditions off Lower Manhattan. [New York Times]• An artist attached LED lights to thousands of pigeons and sent them soaring over the East River on Thursday night, lighting up the sky. [CBS]• Scoreboard: Orioles snub Yankees, 1-0. Padres send Mets to their room, 5-3.• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Friday Briefing.• The opening reception for the exhibition “Africa: In Fashion and Fabric” is at the Bronx River Art Center. 6 p.m. [Free]• The fashion designer Isaac Mizrahi discusses his career and self-titled book at the Strand bookstore. 7 p.m. [To attend, buy the book for $50 or a $20 gift certificate]• A performance of “The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee” is at the Astoria Performing Arts Center in Queens. 8 p.m. [$18]• The Whispers and the Manhattans play an evening of R&B and soul music at the St. George Theater on Staten Island. 8 p.m. [Tickets start at $49]• Comedians, in character, perform readings about “the greatest novels never written” at Union Hall in Park Slope, Brooklyn. 9:30 p.m. [$8]• Islanders host Lightning, 7 p.m. (NBCS). Red Bulls at Orlando City, 7 p.m. (UniMas). Yankees host Red Sox, 7:05 p.m. (YES). (FS1). Mets at Padres, 10:40 p.m. (SNY).Saturday • Move with the music at the Queens Bike Jazz Tour, beginning at Cannelle Patisserie in East Elmhurst, Queens. 9:55 a.m. [Free]• Scientists will try to identify natural specimens brought in by guests at Identification Day at the American Museum of Natural History. 12 p.m. [$22]• “Manus x Machina,” the exhibition toasted at this year’s Met Gala, is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. 10 a.m. [$25 suggested admission]• Take your kids on nature walks or join arts-and-crafts projects at NatureFest 2016 at the Staten Island Museum at Snug Harbor. 11 a.m. [Free]• Celebrate the legacy of the activist Jane Jacobs with a historical walk at Concrete Plant Park in the Bronx. 11 a.m. [Free]• Here’s where to watch the America’s Cup on the Hudson River. 2 to 3:30 p.m. [Prices vary]• Yankees host Red Sox, 1:05 p.m. (YES). Mets at Padres, 8:40 p.m. (WPIX).• Watch “The New York Times Close Up,” featuring The Times’s N. R. Kleinfield and other guests. Saturday at 10 p.m. and Sunday at 10 a.m. on NY1.Sunday • Stroll across the Brooklyn Bridge at the annual Mother’s Day Walk and Family Festival beginning at Park Row and Centre Street in Manhattan. 9 a.m. [$10]• Sample Japanese culture — calligraphy, Kabuki face painting, origami, performances and food — at Japan Day in Central Park. 10:30 a.m. [Free admission]• Look for gifts at the Mother’s Day arts and crafts fair at the Alice Austen House on Staten Island. 11 a.m. [$3 suggested donation]• The Bronx Book Fair, with readings, workshops and lectures, continues at the Bronx Library Center. 1 p.m. [Free]• “Mothers of Music,” an afternoon of chamber music written by female composers, is at the Queens Museum. 1:30 p.m. [$8]• Islanders at Lightning, 3 p.m. (NBC). Mets at Padres, 4:40 p.m. (WPIX). New York City F.C. at D.C. United, 7:30 p.m. Yankees host Red Sox, 8:05 p.m. (ESPN).• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide. And if you seek things to do outside the city, The Times’s Metropolitan section has suggestions. See this weekend’s listings for Hudson Valley, Long Island, New Jersey and Connecticut.• Subway  and PATH • Railroads: L.I.R.R., Metro-North, N.J. Transit, Amtrak• Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.• Alternate-side parking: in effect until May 30.• Ferries: Staten Island Ferry, New York Waterway, East River Ferry• Airports: La Guardia, J.F.K., Newark• Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.The mother of Mother’s Day, Anna Jarvis, was very protective of her brainchild.Her intense letter-writing campaign led President Woodrow Wilson, in 1914, to establish the holiday.But for Ms. Jarvis, that was just the beginning.“She was a real scrapper,” Howard S. J. Sickel, the chairman of the Anna M. Jarvis committee, told The Times in 1945. She spent many of her 84 years skirmishing with anyone “who tried to distort the real meaning of Mother’s Day.”That included florists, the greeting-card industry and candy makers, to name a few offenders.And then there were the War Mothers, who tried to adopt the carnation as their emblem at a convention.Ms. Jarvis, who claimed that the flower belonged to Mother’s Day, was there to protest, before she was arrested.In her fight against the commercialization of the holiday, she won many battles.We’re unsure if she won the war.New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late morning. You can receive it via email.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS