AdvertisementBy RICHARD SANDOMIRJAN. 23, 2007
Reggie Bush was well on his way to an 88-yard touchdown Sunday when Shannon Sharpe sprung as if catapulted from his chair on the set of CBS’s “The NFL Today” and sprinted to a television screen that stands nearly 9-by-15 feet.“Go! Go! Whooooeeee!” he said, before breaking into a touchdown dance. “Whooooeeee!” He paused for a replay and gleefully spotted Bush pointing at Bears linebacker Brian Urlacher and somersaulting into the end zone.“Ha ha!” Sharpe said, his feet hyper-happy. “Oooooweeee!”Then: “Yeah baby!”This was Sharpe off the air: untethered and unfiltered; the analyst as impetuous fan; the candid commentator as impulsive star working a big room as if he had guzzled a six pack of Red Bull in 30 seconds.Over more than seven hours, as he watched the two N.F.L. conference championship games, first in a viewing room, and then on the two-tiered, multi-hued studio set, Sharpe kibitzed with his co-stars James Brown, Dan Marino and Boomer Esiason; razzed players; hectored officials; rapidly analyzed plays in progress; talked back at Troy Aikman, who called the New Orleans-Chicago game on Fox; beat the air with his fists; and fulminated over Thomas Jones’s early absence from the Bears’ backfield.AdvertisementEarly in the Bears-Saints game, Sharpe shouted at Bush as he ran toward the sideline: “Get inside! Get inside!” He bounced out of his chair Tom Cruise-like and seemed ready to push Bush bodily.Advertisement“Why you running out of bounds?” he said loudly.Pat Kirwan, the program’s editorial consultant, said, “It’s 3:30, Shannon, relax.” He added: “Don’t go into coaching. You’ll get a heart attack.”Sharpe is exuberant on the air, but he does not allow himself to bound out of his studio chair to jaw with the television image of every receiver who drops an easy pass.“I just try to give a glimpse of what I’m like off the air,” he said yesterday in an interview, “but I don’t want to be that animated because it would really distract.”He brings extraordinary animation — even a bit of pandemonium — to the CBS program. He is very much the way he was as a tight end in Denver and Baltimore — chatty, opinionated and comically inclined. And he has learned to be provocative and humorous without the need to be prompted.“He’s genuinely funny and he’s willing to speak his mind,” said Eric Mann, the producer of “NFL Today.”Consider his view about Ravens quarterback Kyle Boller in 2005: “I’ve got a better chance of winning the Kentucky Derby on the back of a donkey than they have of winning the Super Bowl with Kyle Boller.”Or this statement about Giants Coach Tom Coughlin, which Sharpe offered two weeks ago: “I would rather die in an abandoned building alone, and my family not know what happened, than play for Coughlin.”AdvertisementBrown, who spent a dozen seasons as the host of “Fox NFL Sunday,” where he played the adult in a playroom filled with Terry Bradshaw, Howie Long and Jimmy Johnson, said, “Shannon is the ebony version of Terry.”Sharpe has been a catalyzing personality for a program that has searched for an identity since its revival in 1998, even as Fox was redefining the football pregame genre by being entertaining.“The first year, I didn’t have a whole lot to do,” said Sharpe, who is in the third year of a three-year deal with CBS. “I deferred a lot to Boomer and Dan, but as I progressed, they gave me more and realized that the more they gave me, the better I was.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Now he is fully unleashed, a game-film obsessive, an analyst who resists the ambivalent gray area of commentating, and a former player who would not, even if pressed by Mann, interview Terrell Owens.“The kind of questions I’d ask, I don’t think he’d want to answer, so I just tell Eric, ‘Send someone else, maybe J. B. or Lesley Visser,’ ” Sharpe said.He also works out ferociously to maintain a physique that still looks game-ready, and he relaxes by watching judges’ shows on television.“That’s my thing,” he said, of his admiration for Judges Judy, Joe Brown and Mathis.Sharpe wore a paper bag over his head to show solidarity with the Detroit Lions fans who protested the unsuccessful reign of Matt Millen, the team president.And he wept on the air recently in a segment that mocked the tearful news conference of Miss USA Tara Conner, who, having confessed to out-of-pageant misbehavior, had been given a second chance by Donald Trump.“Boomer, help me out,” Brown pleaded, laughing too hard to continue.Esiason said, “I can’t.”AdvertisementSharpe’s older brother, Sterling, is an analyst for “Football Night in America” on NBC. Sterling is loud and boisterous on the air but is as publicity-averse as Shannon is a publicist’s dream. They differ in one other significant way: Sterling’s voice is smooth, but Shannon’s Georgia accent and fast speech pattern can make him difficult to understand. He said he had some concern that his voice would hinder his TV career, but he came to believe that “it’s part of the allure of who Shannon Sharpe is.”“I’m not supposed to be phonetically correct or enunciate perfectly,” he said.In the American Football Conference championship  game, which was carried on CBS, Sharpe was cheering for the Indianapolis Colts, whom he picked to beat New England. He selected the Colts but first gave reasons why the Patriots would win. “We call that a Marino,” he said.The game was in the third quarter and the Colts were coming back after a dispiriting first half. When Peyton Manning tossed a 1-yard touchdown pass to Dan Klecko, Sharpe took to the hard floor in front of the enormous screen and pretended to be ice skating, a silly ritual that he and Esiason engage in when the teams they pick to win do something productive.“Shan-non!” Brown shouted.When the Colts lined up for the 2-point conversion, Sharpe bellowed his play call, “Fade! Fade! Fade!” Manning hit Marvin Harrison to tie the score at 21-21. Again, in his brown shoes, Sharpe skated, looked to his colleagues with a small “ta-da!” gesture and broadened his face into a smile.“Shan-non!” Brown said over the noise as Sharpe glided.Esiason and Kirwan nearly tumbled over each other giggling when the Patriots’ actions prompted them to skate. Sharpe and Esiason several times swapped chances to push each other along the floor in rolling chairs.“It’s like this every week,” said Kirwan, a former Jets official.As the Colts prepared for their winning drive with 2 minutes 17 seconds left in the game, Sharpe said to the TV screen, “Peyton, you want to be great?”When Manning completed a 14-yard pass to Reggie Wayne to advance the Colts to the New England 23, Sharpe loosened his vocal cords.“Whoooooooeeeeee!” he said.  And then he strutted.He clapped his hands vigorously and stomped his feet as Joseph Addai scored to put the Colts ahead, 38-34. And when Tom Brady’s pass was intercepted, ending any chance of a comeback by the Patriots, Sharpe picked up a studio telephone and asked Mann, “You think we’ll get a 30 rating for this?”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Sharpe Is a Showman on the Set and Off.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »