(Richard Tisdale won the reader column contest and  will contribute the final guest column. He   chose to write about who may be the Super Bowl’s most valuable player. But first he answered a few questions from the Fifth Down)Quick Bio: Richard Tisdale, otherwise known as Classless Bill B. Age 36. I live in Brooklyn and grew up in Fair Lawn, N.J. I am an attorney currently working as a law clerk for a judge in New York.1) What’s your greatest football moment, and your worst?
The U.S. stunning Portugal, 3-2 at the World Cup — what’s that, Toni? Oh, that football. Well, as a Chargers fan, their playoff epic against the Dolphins in January 1982 is tops. The worst was the very next week when they lost in the crazy cold (temperature of -9 F with wind chill at – 59 degrees F) at Cincinnati.  I was at the impressionable age of 12.  In the 24 years since, I’ve come to understand some of the things that once seemed unfathomable to a 12-year-old.  But how Cincinnati, which is a mile from Kentucky, ever got that cold still escapes me.2)  If you were Roger Goodell, what’s the one thing you’d change?
Better benefits for the veterans by increasing their pensions and making it easier for them to claim disability benefits. The league can and should take better care of its veterans. Gene Upshaw, head of the players’ union, shares responsibility for selling this to the union.3)  One thing you’d change about our country.
 Our nation’s dependence on foreign olive oil.

4)  Who’s your favorite sportswriter/columnist?
Paul Zimmerman/SI during NFL season. George Vecsey/NYT at other times.5) What would you like The New York Times to cover more?
More local news, like nitty-gritty City Hall, City Council, Board of Ed. stuff.6) What would like to see us cover less?
 I would like to see the Metropolitan Diary take up much less space — like zero.  Banning all stories that involve children, pets or interactions on cross-town bus rides could do this.7) The one TV sports personality that has to go.Joe Theismann. (You can avoid the hysterics of pregame shows but it’s hard to avoid the donkey calling the game.)

8)  “American Idol”: America at its finest? Or a contest that should be fought strictly with guns?
Never seen it but it is popular – so America at its finest.

9)  Who would be your ideal Super Bowl halftime act?
Since I’m a proud native of New Jersey, there’s only one musical choice — American Standard.  10) Pick a final score for Sunday’s game and the number of interceptions Rex Grossman will throw.
Bears in an upset, 20-13. Rex Grossman throws one interception in just five attempts as the Bears punt several times on second down to get more scoring chances for their defense and Devin Hester.Most Valuable By Richard TisdaleThe Super Bowl MVP.Who will join immortals like Jake Scott, Dexter Jackson and Mark Rypien and lift the coveted award?  Oddsmakers think there is only real possibility — the one Manning brother who actually seems to like going to work.First, here are the odds (there are various lines out there; this  is just one list I saw):Peyton Manning — 9 to 5
Rex Grossman — 10 to 1
Joseph Addai — 10 to 1
Thomas Jones — 10 to 1
Cedric Benson — 12 to 1
Marvin Harrison — 12 to 1
Reggie Wayne — 12 to 1
Brian Urlacher — 15 to 1
Dallas Clark — 30 to 1
Muhsin Muhammad — 30 to 1
Dominic Rhodes — 30 to 1
Bernard Berrian — 30 to 1
Adam Vinatieri — 30 to 1
Devin Hester — 30 to 1
Bob Sanders — 30 to 1
Robbie Gould — 40 to 1
Field (Any Other Player) — 11 to 2 Peyton Manning is going off at about even odds to win the award.  The next closest player is Rex Grossman.  Yeah, Grossman, the guy being talked about as the worst passer at a Super Bowl since Dolphins kicker Garo Yepremian, is the second favorite, which shows you what the oddsmakers think of everyone but Manning’s chances.Manning does have some allure.  Of the 40 MVP’s, exactly half have played quarterback.  Plus, the MVP vote is a true popularity contest, chosen by  sportswriters (80 percent) and fans (20 percent) during the game, meaning 97 percent of the vote will be influenced by Budweiser.  So deserving but unknown players, like the great centers for each team, Jeff Saturday or Olin Kreutz, have no shot.  Peyton, with his truly funny acting in commercials and high sympathy factor as villain Belichick’s foil, is certainly popular.  But, on the other hand, only one MVP has come from the losing team.  So even if you give the Bears only a 30 percent chance of winning, the vote for Manning at these odds doesn’t make much math sense.Besides, Manning has already won his award for the year by beating Brady at his own game of “stirring comeback.”  With the poor odds on Manning, you can do better elsewhere.  To find another name to cross off the list, I consulted the worst gambler I know – “The Kid.”  The Kid, during Week 2 this season, tried out a new theory:  betting on every 0-1 team.  He called several friends back home when he was in Las Vegas to see if any wanted in on this.  I laughed and told him to get to sleep. The Kid’s teams went 2-8, and he was forced to sell off various real estate holdings and Black Sabbath records to maintain his lifestyle. Two years in a row, The Kid has been bounced out of an NFL Survivor Pool in Week One.  (In a Survivor Pool, you pick one team a week to win, but you can’t pick the same team twice in a year. The last person to lose wins. Most people, playing favorites, last until Week Six or so.)  The Kid likes Benson, the second-string Bears running back, at 12-1.  Scratch Benson.No, given the probable outcome of the game, your best odds are on the “field” or one large figure for sale on a discount.First, whenever defensive backs get more than one pick (Larry Brown, Dexter Jackson), it’s like a beautiful actress dressing down or gaining thirty pounds for a film (Charlize Theron in “Monster” or Nicole Kidman as Virginia Woolf).  They become serious Oscar contenders regardless of how well they did otherwise.  Since no Bears defensive backs are listed, you can play them by taking the “field.”  This Bears defense can pressure the QB, can force turnovers, and can score.  I think one of these defensive backs or a lineman will score and we’ll see their visibility rocket.  Plus, I don’t buy that Manning has become a clutch playoff performer after having one good game out of three this year.The other major dark horse to watch is Vinatieri.  He kicked five field goals against another good defense, Baltimore’s, in this year’s playoffs and has never missed a postseason field-goal attempt.  And unlike most kickers, he is actually  a “story,” which sells  with the voting public.  Can a kicker, who has never won, win?No.  I think it’s going to be a name not listed above.  Like defensive end Alex Brown, cornerback Nathan Vasher, or linebacker Lance Briggs. Someone with multiple interceptions, sacks or a score. Of course, if the Colts win, it will be Manning or Marvin Harrison, whom everyone wants to see have a big game to cap off a tremendous career.  But I think the Bears, led by their defense, are going to pull this one out.To put Manning’s odds in better perspective, the legendary Secretariat approached the 1973 Kentucky Derby as an accomplished three-year-old, having already been voted Horse of the Year for 1972, and went off at odds similar to Manning’s — 3-2.Despite his impressive bloodlines and sire, Peyton is no Secretariat.Comments are no longer being accepted.I like anything that may involve gambling, so well done.  If I was a gambling man, I’d like Dallas Clark’s odds for MVP.  The Bears’ cover 2, Dallas Clark in splitting the safteties, after Urlacher bites on play action.  I do agree that I hate Manning’s odds, though.  They are terrible.I wish I could have been around to collect those Black Sabbath records.The Chicago Bears will bear down and will — as their song goes — show everyone why they’re the pride and joy of Illinois!You forgot about The Kid’s stunning win on Giacomo at 50-1, he got to go to the Record Swap at DC’s and buy back the Black Sabbath albums.As someone who does see stagflation lite on the horizon, perhaps even the near-term horizon, i would like to know why greenspan thinks it “doesn’t” seem that we are entering a period of stagflation.Sentimental and nostalgic. Great.%Very cool design! Useful information. Go on!mReally perfect!simple but quality, thanks!gGreat article. An attorney, really?The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans.
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more…
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more…
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more…
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more…
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more…FollowAdvertisement