Step right up and test your Super Bowl IQ. If you score 75 points or above, claim credit in the Comments section, and explain how it is that you remember this stuff — photographic memory, all-around trivia buff, or unable to form meaningful relationships and using the Super Bowl as a substitute?  If you score 30 or below, we’re willing to hear excuses, but they have to be creative. We’re counting on you to use the honor system (if you have a moment, read this column on that topic). The answers are in a separate post (below).

QuizBy The Associated PressI — What was the name of the first “Super Bowl”? (5 points).II — Indianapolis’s Adam Vinatieri is making his fifth Super Bowl appearance. Who is the only to player make six appearances? (5 points).III — The winning team receives the Vince Lombardi Trophy. What is the name of the trophy presented to the MVP? (5 points).IV — True or False. Since 1990, Indianapolis is the only No. 3 seed to reach the Super Bowl. (5 points).V — Which Chicago Bear was named the MVP in the 1986 Super Bowl? (5 points).a) Dan Hamptonb) Walter Paytonc) Richard Dentd) Mike SingletaryVI — Indianapolis set a conference championship record overcoming an 18-point deficit in the AFC title game against New England. What’s the largest deficit a team had to overcome to win the Super Bowl? (5 points).VII — True or False. A Super Bowl has never gone into overtime? (5 points).VIII — Last year Hines Ward became the fifth wide receiver to win the Super Bowl MVP. Name the first. (5 points).IX — True or False. The Colts are the first franchise to represent two different cities in the Super Bowl. (5 points).X — Which Super Bowl received the highest TV rating? (5 points).XI — Who has the most career passing yards in the Super Bowl? (5 points).a) Tom Brady, New Englandb) John Elway, Denverc) Joe Montana, San Franciscod) Terry Bradshaw, PittsburghXII — True or False. No punt return has ever been returned for a touchdown. (5 points).XIII — Who is the last player to return a kickoff for a touchdown in the Super Bowl? (5 points).XIV — Peyton Manning of Indianapolis led the league in passing with a 101.0 passer rating. Who is the last quarterback to lead the NFL in passing and win the Super Bowl in the same season? (5 points).a) Brett Favre, Green Bayb) Brad Johnson, Tampa Bayc) Steve Young, San Franciscod) Kurt Warner, St. LouisXV — Name the only kick returner to win the MVP award. (5 points),XVI — Only one player has won the MVP while playing on the losing team. Who is he? (5 points).XVII — Adam Vinatieri has kicked four field goals in his Super Bowl career. Who holds the record with five in a career? (5 points).a) Roy Gerela, Pittsburghb) Efren Herrera, Dallasc) Ray Wersching, San Franciscod) Jeff Wilkins, St. LouisXVIII — The team with fewer turnovers has won 28 of 32 Super Bowls, in eight other Super Bowls turnovers were equal. Name one of the four teams to have more turnovers and win the Super Bowl. (5 points).XIX — True or False. This is the first time the Colts and Bears have met in the postseason. (5 points).XX — Who scored the first points in Super Bowl history? (5 points).a) Don Chandlerb) Curtis McClintonc) Max McGeed) Elijah PittsScoring:95 or more — MVP90-94 — First Team All-Pro85-89 — Second Team All-Pro75-84 — Honorable Mention All-Pro65-74 — Starter50-64 — Benchwarmer30-49 — Practice Squad0-29 — Preseason cutComments are no longer being accepted.it is a challenge and a great way of enjoying the game more.where are the answers? it said below but I don’t see them.NYT editor — In a different post directly below. If it was in the same post, it would have been too tempting to look at the answers first! That was great!  Hard, but great!The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans.
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more…
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more…
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more…
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more…
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more…FollowAdvertisement