Note: This lesson was originally published on an older version of The Learning Network; the link to the related Times article will take you to a page on the old site.Teaching ideas based on New York Times content.

See all lesson plans »

Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students share opinions about the tone and content of two commercials presented during Super Bowl XLI. They then work with a partner to critique a commercial from a past Super Bowl, and then assess the commercials that run during a half-hour television show.
Author(s):
Jennifer Rittner, The New York Times Learning Network
Javaid Khan, The Bank Street College of Education in New York CitySuggested Time Allowance: 1 hourObjectives:Students will: 1. Share opinions about the tone and content of a Super Bowl XLI commercial. 2. Learn about one business writer’s critique of Super Bowl XLI commercials by reading and discussing the article “Super Bowl Ads of Cartoonish Violence, Perhaps Reflecting Toll of War.” 3. Prepare and present a critique of a commercial presented during a past Super Bowl. 4. Critique commercials aired during a television show. Resources / Materials:-pens/pencils -computer and projector (as outlined in the Warm-up) -classroom board -student journals -copies of the article “Super Bowl Ads of Cartoonish Violence, Perhaps Reflecting Toll of War,” found online at //www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20070208thursday.html (one per student) -computers with Internet access, or printed story boards or still photos of commercials (if computers with Internet access are not available) Activities / Procedures:1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: Before class, prepare a computer and projector to show two Super Bowl commercials featured in the interactive graphic entitled “The Super Ad Bowl: Two Decades of Players at //www.nytimes.com/2007/02/01/business/media/20070201_SUPERBOWLADS_GRAPHIC.html.
 Also prior to class, write the following questions on the board for students to consider after they watch each clip: “What is the product or service being advertised in this commercial? Who are the main characters? What are the main themes or ideas? What is its tone? Who do you think is the target audience?” Play the first clip (recommended: 2007-Travel-FedEx) and have students respond in their journals. Then play the second clip (recommended: 1984-Tech/Financial-Apple) and have students respond in the journals. After a few minutes, have students share their responses.
 Why might these commercials have been considered appropriate or desirable for the Super Bowl audience? Do you think they “work”? Do you think the Super Bowl audience might have responded positively or negatively to the tone and content of these commercials? What larger social issues, concerns or problems might be reflected in the themes or tone of these commercials?
 2. As a class, read and discuss the article “Super Bowl Ads of Cartoonish Violence, Perhaps Reflecting Toll of War” (//www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20070208thursday.html), focusing on the following questions: a. What evidence does Stuart Elliott cite to suggest that the commercials shown during the Super Bowl reflect concerns about the war in Iraq? b. What does Mr. Elliott mean by the term “Madison Avenue”? c. What might the commercials suggest about current attitudes toward the war and violence? d. How do they differ from the attitudes reflected in the 1971 Coca-Cola commercial known as “Hilltop”? d. What does Mr. Elliott cite as examples of intended humor that “came across as cruel or callous”? e. Do you agree with his assessment? f. Why might the device of perceived reality revealed to be a dream be considered a reflection of current public sentiment? g. What is Mr. Elliott’s overall assessment of the Super Bowl XLI commercials in terms of tone, content, innovation and presentation? h. What effect do Mr. Elliott’s critiques have on your perception of the commercials? i. Why do you think the commercials for the Super Bowl are considered a key element of the televised sporting event?
 3. Explain to students that they will work in pairs to write a critique of a Super Bowl commercial in the spirit of Stuart Elliott’s column. To begin, arrange the class into pairs and provide each with a commercial from the interactive graphic at //www.nytimes.com/2007/02/01/business/media/20070201_SUPERBOWLADS_GRAPHIC.html. Choose from the entire portfolio of commercials, 1984 to the present. Divide students into pairs and provide each one with a copy of the following guiding questions to help them prepare their critiques:
 PRODUCT AND TARGET AUDIENCE/CONSUMERS -What product or service is being advertised? -Who do you think is the primary target audience for this product or service? -What might be the relationship between the target audience, or typical consumer of this product or service, and the average Super Bowl viewer?
 PLOT AND CHARACTERS -What is the story line or plot of the commercial? -Who are the main characters, and how are they presented? -What key qualities or traits are significant about the main characters? -What secondary characters are used to enhance the plot or setting, and what are their roles? -How does the story line relate to the use and purpose, or the image, of the product or service? -What visual effects are used, and what is their effect? -How would you describe the commercial’s tone?
 THEMES AND ELEMENTS -What themes or values are presented in the commercial? -How might these themes relate to the product or service?  -How might they reflect current political or social concerns, such as war, climate change, the economy, gender roles or personal health? -What attitude or opinion about these concerns do you think the commercial expresses?
 ASSESSMENT -What judgment might you make about the product and its consumers based on the commercial? -How successful do you think it is in enticing viewers to buy the product or service? -Might you use or buy it as a result of this commercial? Why or why not? -To what extent does the commercial reflect your own values, opinions and/or attitudes? -How might the commercial influence viewers to consider, question or act on the political or social themes presented?
 Have students present the commercials and their critiques. Then, as a class, discuss what, if any, themes, images, words or other elements are common to many of the commercials and what the students think about them with respect to Stuart Elliott’s assessment.
 4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Individually, students keep a log during a 30- minute television show of their choice, chronicling the commercials that air, and then write a short paper analyzing how these commercials relate to the program, the product or service, as well as the show’s intended audience and the advertiser’s target consumer. Further Questions for Discussion:-What themes, values or attitudes are presented in commercials that air during the programs you watch?  -Do you think that you are influenced by those messages? -How do ads and commercials shape your opinion of various goods and services? -Do you avoid watching commercials, or do you enjoy it? Do you find them annoying and worthless, or engaging and entertaining? -Have you ever bought a product or service because of an advertisement or commercial? If so, what was it, and how did the advertisement entice you? Evaluation / Assessment:Students will be evaluated based on participation in the warm-up exercise, thoughtful critiques of a commercial, and completion of their commercial log and critique.Vocabulary:callous, masculinity, menacing, reminiscent, channeling, plaintively, yearning, evocative, whimsical, counterpoint, martial, solace, dire, prosperous, forlorn, homonym, invoking, inferring, imply, intoned, miffed, bedraggled, figuratively, anthropomorphic, ardent, deftly, nefarious, smirk, spoof, parody, elicitExtension Activities:1. Visit an advertising firm or invite an advertising executive to your class to learn more about the field. What is the process of understanding a company, product or service? How does the creative team learn about a target audience and create an campaign that might be considered innovative or inspired? After the visit, write a letter to the presenter with a question or comment based on his or her presentation.
 2. Reflect on the language Stuart Elliott used to describe and critique the commercials. How might his words and ideas influence the reader’s opinions about the ads? Write a reflection that examines the role of such a critique in influencing or reflecting public opinion.
 3. Investigate the cost of running advertisements during a major sporting event, such as the Super Bowl, the World Series, the U.S. Open, or the Olympics, or another major television event, such as the Academy Awards. Create a series of charts and graphs that demonstrate the advertisers who have bought time during this event during the last five years, the costs associated with the ad placements, the anticipated revenues for the company and the actual revenues and/or stock prices in the six months following the events.
 4. Prepare an economic report about a company that advertised during Super Bowl XLI. When was it founded? How has it, and its image, changed since its founding? How have those changes be reflected in its advertising? What are its annual revenues, and how have they changed over the last two, five or ten years? How much did the company spend on Super Bowl advertising this year? Why might it have wanted to market its product during the Super Bowl?
 5. Create your own storyboard for a commercial that advertises one of the products or services for which you viewed a commercial in class or for homework. What are your intentions and strategy?  Interdisciplinary Connections:American History – Prepare a portfolio of print ads run during wartime (e.g., World War I, World War II, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the Gulf War). How might the tone and content of the ads reflect public opinion about the war? How might the products or services advertised reflect an aspect of the war? Present portfolios and analyses in class.
 Civics – Prepare an annotated timeline highlighting significant activities of the Federal Communications Commission. Include a summary that explains when and why it was established. What steps does it take to respond to and/or protect the public? What controversies has it faced?
 Fine Arts – Create a collage of print ads that presents one of the following dual concepts: masculinity/femininity, aggression/passivity, cartoonish/realistic, humorous/cruel. Present finished works in class and have a discussion.
 Journalism – Write a column for your school newspaper critiquing commercials that air during the programs commonly watched by students at your school.
 Social Studies – How might the Super Bowl commercials be different if the audience were primarily female? Write a story board for one ad with a female audience in mind. Present finished work in class.
 Teaching with The Times  -Read the Sports section of The Times every day for one month and clip words or phrases that relate to war and suggest images of war or fighting. What is the relationship between war and the military and sports? What controversies have arisen from the use of language by sports figures that reflects or refers to war? Write a reflection that responds to these questions.   -Read all Business articles in The Times about advertising for the next month and then write a reflection on how reading about the advertising business has altered how you see advertising. -Analyze the ads in The Times according to section. What types of ads appear in which sections, and what does that suggest to you about the readership of each section? To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here. Other Information on the Web:Super Bowl XLI Commercials (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=superbowl) offers a complete roster of commercials.
 NFL Super Bowl (//www.superbowl.com/) provides facts and statistics about Super Bowls past and present.
 The Federal Communications Commission (//www.fcc.gov) provides information about the agencies goals and activities. Academic Content Standards:Grades 6-8   Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses style and structure appropriate for specific audiences and purposes; Writes in response to literature    Language Arts Standard 4- Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of resource materials to gather information for research topics; Determines the appropriateness of an information source for a research topic; Organizes information and ideas from multiple sources in a systematic way   Language Arts Standard 7- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Applies reading skills and strategies to a variety of informational texts; Knows the defining characteristics of a variety of informational texts; Identifies techniques used to convey viewpoint; Seeks peer help to understand information; Draws conclusions and makes inferences based on explicit and implicit information in texts; Differentiates between fact and opinion in informational texts  Language Arts Standard 8- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Plays a variety of roles in group discussions; Asks questions to seek elaboration and clarification of ideas; Listens in order to understand a speaker’s topic, purpose, and perspective; Conveys a clear main point when speaking to others and stays on the topic being discussed; Presents simple prepared reports to the class 
  Grades 9-12  Technology Standard 3- Understands the relationships among science, technology, society, and the individual. Benchmarks: Knows ways in which social and economic forces influence which technologies will be developed and used; Knows that alternatives, risks, costs, and benefits must be considered when deciding on proposals to introduce new technologies or to curtail existing ones; Knows examples of advanced and emerging technologies   Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that are focused for different audiences; Writes compositions that fulfill different purposes; Writes descriptive compositions; Writes reflective compositions; Writes in response to literature   Language Arts Standard 4- Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of resource materials to gather information for research topics; Determines the appropriateness of an information source for a research topic; Organizes information and ideas from multiple sources in a systematic way  Language Arts Standard 7- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Applies reading skills and strategies to a variety of informational texts; Knows the defining characteristics of a variety of informational texts; Determines the effectiveness of techniques used to convey viewpoint; Uses discussions with peers as a way of understanding information   Language Arts Standard 8- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Asks questions as a way to broaden and enrich classroom discussions; Adjusts message wording and delivery to particular audiences and for particular purposes; Makes formal presentations to the class; Responds to questions and feedback about own presentations   This lesson plan may be used to address the academic standards listed above.
				 These standards are drawn from Content Knowledge: A Compendium of Standards and Benchmarks for K-12 Education;
				 3rd and 4th Editions and have been provided courtesy of the Mid-continent Research
				 for Education and Learning in Aurora, Colorado.Comments are no longer being accepted.Sign up for our free newsletter. Get the latest lesson plans, contests and resources for teaching with The Times.Advertisement