(Mark St. Amant is the author of Committed: Confessions of a Fantasy Football Junkie and Just Kick It: Tales of an Underdog, Over-Age, Out-of-Place Semi-Pro Football Player.)Over the course of the season, we’ve pretty much stuck to non-controversial topics  at the Fifth Down. Ahman Green vs. Jamal Lewis. Jake Plummer vs. Jay Cutler. When does Tony Romo’s deal with Mephistopheles officially expire? About the most inflammatory it’s gotten is when Florida fans tried to defend their team’s utterly asinine inclusion in the Fiesta Bowl over Michigan. (Clearly, you see where I stand on that matter.) But something occurred this past week that made it impossible not to add a few thoughts on perhaps the most hot-button topic this side of Roe v. Wade: Race and sexual orientation. (My editor, Toni, just started stumbling around his living room like Fred Sanford, pounding his chest and yelling, “This is the big one, Elizabeth!”)It begins with Joey Porter. After the Pittsburgh-Cleveland game, Porter called Browns tight end Kellen Winslow a word used as a slur against gay men. It was obviously intended to be a slam on Winslow’s manhood, his bravery, his overall playing ability, whatever else. Of course, he apologized. “I would just like to say it was a poor choice of words in the comment I made toward Winslow,” Porter told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. “If I offended anybody, I apologize for that.”But then he went to the ol’ reliable “get out of jail free card” that people whip out of their wallets and purses in times of crisis, instead of – and here’s a wild concept, so I hope you’re sitting down – simply accepting responsibility for their actions/words/behavior like adults.Yes, Porter played the Childhood Environment Card. “I guess how we used that word freely, me growing up using it, I didn’t think nothing of it like that,” Porter said. “Like I said, I apologize to anybody I offended on it. I didn’t mean to offend nobody but Kellen Winslow.”Lemme get this straight, Joey: You call Winslow an “F-Word ” and defend yourself by saying that you used the term widely in your neighborhood growing up and meant only to offend Winslow, not the whole gay community? By that logic, would you be cool with, say, some waste of oxygen calling you the “N-word” and give him a pass because he used it freely growing up in his van down by the river? Would you also let him slide if he said that he meant it only toward that one specific individual – you — and not the whole African-American community? Joey, no offense, but you seem a little thick, so I’ll write slowly: To a gay man. The “F-word.” Is as offensive. As the “N-word.” Is. To. African. Americans. Got it? No? If you don’t, there’s a guy named Omar from Baltimore who’d be glad to pay you a visit and explain it to you. Honestly, I’m really interested to see how this plays out. Many on sports message boards have written that if this were Ben Roethlisberger or Bill Cowher –  a white Steeler — who used the same slur, it’d be a media feeding frenzy. Ellen DeGeneres would devote an entire show to homophobic pro athletes. GLAD would be picketing outside Heinz Field, calling for Big Ben to be benched or Cowher to be fired. From Michael Irvin to Steve Lyons to Ozzie Guillen to Rush Limbaugh to, now, Joey Porter, there seems to be no equal treatment under the “insensitive remark” law. Those message boards are going ballistic about the double standard they believe exists when it comes to punishing people for racially/sexually offensive remarks, i.e. white people (Lyons, Limbaugh) are held to a higher standard than African-Americans (Irvin, Porter) and Hispanics (e.g. Guillen), who are given a “free pass.” I don’t know about any free passes. I don’t know if a double standard exists because it’s too complex an argument to get into in this relatively small space. I do know, however, that (A) Rush Limbaugh is indeed, as Al Franken wrote, a big, fat idiot, and (B) Joey Porter will be playing football on Sunday, as if nothing happened. Meanwhile Steve Lyons, who said something far less offensive, in my opinion, will sit home in his underwear, unshaven, posting another resume on Monster.com.Bottom line, if we truly want equality in this world, and want to ensure that everyone gets an equal shot at grasping hold of The Good in life, then it’s only fair that everyone should get an equal shot at being vilified for doing or saying The Bad. That’s in a perfect world. Then again, if it were a perfect world, I wouldn’t even be writing about this. Is there a racial double-standard when it comes to offensive remarks? Is this all just fodder for sports radio (and blathering blogs)? Chime in below.Now, onto even more serious subjects, like which warm waiver-wire body could help you in a playoff pinch:RON DAYNE, RB, HOU: Kubiak is pulling his mini-Shanahan act again (Lundy…Dayne…Lundy….Dayne), but it seems as if Dayne will get the majority of carries this weekend against a banged-up Pats rush D (no Wilfork, no Seau) that was just beaten down by the legendary Sammy Morris. All you Kevin Jones owners: if you need an emergency flex, Dayne could get 50-60 yds and a TD, or more. Dayne also has the Colts in Week 16. Speaking of Jones…ARLEN HARRIS, RB, DET: Hasn’t done much when given the start in the past, but he gets the rock this weekend, is a Martz favorite from the Rams days and plays the Pack, which isn’t exactly a force against the run. Aveion Cason could steal carries, and don’t be surprised if this turns into a Ciatrick Fason/Artose Pinner situation, but right now it sounds like Harris is the primary fill-in for Jones.D.J. HACKETT, WR, SEA: Darrell Jackson is out, meaning Branch becomes Hasselbeck’s #1 in Seattle, and Hackett moves into a more prominent role. They love this kid out there and he could be a lock for a TD and decent yardage tonight against a Niners secondary that  can’t cover anyone.SAINTS DEFENSE: The Skins and Jason Campbell have looked terrible, and the Saints are playing inspired defense of late. At home. Two games up on Atlanta and three up on Carolina in the NFC South with three remaining, looking for that division title. Skins playing for nothing but a shot at Brady Quinn. And N’awlins has a little fella named Jeb Bush or something returning punts, which is always nice if you get special teams points as well.TONY SCHEFFLER, TE, DEN: New Broncs QB Jay Cutler and Scheffler were roomies during training camp. Apparently, they bonded over a few games of Parchisi and maybe a Coors Light beer ball, because Cutler looked to Scheffler as his security blanket last week and it resulted in two TDs. They play the Cards this weekend. If you lost Ben Watson, jump on Scheffler or…VERNON DAVIS, TE, SF: Kid’s a beast. Turns 10-yard outs into 55-yard TDs. And he doesn’t even really know the playbook yet! The Niners’ passing game isn’t on fire right now, but Davis could be a factor as they try to keep up with Seattle tonight.DEVERY HENDERSON, WR, NO: He’s probably off your waiver wire by now, but if not, grab him. Horn is out and likely rested until the NFL playoffs, meaning Henderson becomes Brees’s #2 behind Colston.JUSTIN GRIFFITH, RB, ATL: Dunn possibly out. Norwood likely out. They’re even talking about lining Vick up at RB. This is an utter desperation start at best, as the Falcons play the tough Dallas rush defense. And don’t be fooled by how badly the Saints ran on the Cowboys last week . . . that happens when you have an actual passing attack to keep the D on its toes. Griffith is a “break glass in case of taking a zero at RB” start at best.CUTLER: Playing the Cards. Getting better every week. If you’re dismal at QB, he’s worth a look.Good luck in your playoff games!Comments are no longer being accepted.All righty. Semifinals. I am excited about my matchups this week, but have a hole at the flex. Booker filled in admirably last week, but I can’t see him doing it against the Bills’ pass D. I am close to replacing him with Sammy Morris — the Bills’ rush D stinks — or Artrose Pinner if he starts, against the Jets. What do you think? Should I just ride Booker till he keels over?Forget Pinner. Taylor is up to ?able and Fason’s still there, too. And are you going to trust Brad Childress after last week’s bait-and-switch? I like Morris. Bills’ rush defense is verrrry bad, as you said, and Joey will struggle against their pass D. Good luck.The double standard for offensive remarks is not limited to the slips of the tongue that take place during interviews and other unrehearsed material.  Consider the white-bashing by the African-American stand-up comedians and imagine the routines in reverse; white guys ripping blacks!  Your point is well taken but it’s a much larger issue than you indicate.I love the blog for both FF advice (good and bad) and sports/social commentary. I’m a daily reader and this is my first post. As for the double standard, history and present day evidence shows that almost all American institutions favor white people so, yeah, maybe there is a double standard when black people say things like that.  The effects of racism on black people, however, are FAR more dangerous than offensive words spoken by blacks about others (just ask Sean Bell’s fiancee about this).   As for the last post, white comedians don’t rip blacks (except for Micahel Richards, of course) because I think deep down they know they wouldn’t get away with it just as surely as they know they wouldn’t trade in their whiteness for being black. Which would you rather have, white privilege or the ability to “rip blacks”?  All of this does not excuse Mr. Porter for degrading gay people.  It also, however, is not an occasion to point out how black people get away with something in American society without an acknowledgemnt (at least) of how much America has taken away.I imagine this will get edited/not posted.  I really am not trying to be a jerk. I just think white people need to realize how much we have gained in our society simply by being white.  If, as you say, “we truly want equality in this world, and want to ensure that everyone gets an equal shot at grasping hold of The Good in life, then it’s only fair that everyone should get an equal shot at being vilified for doing or saying The Bad,” then let’s start vilifying folks after equity has been achieved in our helath care, penal and educational systems.Love that you wrote about it…uh… millionaire athletes seem to have plenty of equity as far as I can tell. My guess is that Porter won’t have trouble paying for his meds, will be able to afford a very fancy team of lawyers in case he decides to murder his ex-wife and is able to hire all the over-educated people he needs.The “po litel me” argument doesn’t sit well. Especially since a fair number of the f-word-plural-nouns are also from historically oppressed racial groups. I imagine that when it comes to being threatened and insulted, the fact that the perpetrator might have had his own feelings hurt in the past or is disadvantaged in the health care, penal and educational systems is probably a small condolence.All tongue in cheek PC posturing aside, Porter’s a jerk, but as long as he performs he’s not going to have to pay the price, just like Mel.Speaking of Mel, can we start calling it the J-word? Where only people of the hebrew pursuasion can use it and everyone else has to circumlocute?Unfortunately, I could not respond to the St. Amant piece (Sticks and Stones) sooner.  But I am compelled to call him out on his misplaced self-righteous indignation. First, the so-called “F” word he refers to does not equate to the “N” word he compares it to.  I don’t recall a time in this nation’s history when gay men were sought out and lynched because they were gay, while local, state and the federal government condoned it by turning a blind eye. Nor do I recall a point in this nations history where gay men were denied the franchise (the right to vote) even though they were taxpayers, as was the case with black Americans.  If you apply some objective thought, you would realize your comparison does not hold; there are many more examples that prove your analogy inaccurate.  Secondly, this silly-minded game of publicly rebuking those who openly use the “N” word is specious, along with the empty contrition that follows, and accompanied by the faux media indignation.  This silly little game was created by a power structure that is monopolized by well-educated white males: You cannot call a black man the “N” word but it is OK to treat him like an “N”. When this system ventures into the depths of the harshest ghettoes to extract black kids that can run four-second forty-yard dashes, or possess forty-eight inch vertical leaps, but will fight to keep out academically-inclined black students from University seats, not because they do not have the aptitude (ability to learn) or drive, but because their inadequate school system ill-prepared them, then the “N” word is being refrained very loudly. You can come play sports at XYZ Division I University irrespective of your grades (we’ll get you a fake High School Diploma and test scores), but absent the athletic potential, you cannot have one of our seats; although you may have academic promise, your scores are not high enough.  This double standard ripples through the economy and workplace in terms of jobs and positions of power. And those few athletes that do make it to the pro level, guess who manages their wealth; polishes their image to make them Madison Avenue marketable; writes their press releases when they do stupid things; and puts the empty disingenuous words in their mouths to cleanse their image so the cash flow stream continues?  And those who don’t make it, what happens to them once their eligibility runs out? What is their societal value? Is there a system in place designed to extract the talent of gay men while simultaneously exploiting them?  So please, when you get fired-up to take your disingenious, self-righteous, “everyone is equal and should be treated equal posture”, bear in mind there are readers of this publication who have not been dumbed-down to the point of buying into this myth.Gary, sorry you felt it was ‘disingenious’ (sic) of me to write what I wrote, and your points are well-taken. But where your reply falls short is comparing the power of a WORD to the violent and unjust ACTIONS that were inflicted upon a race. Because a group in society has not been persecuted enough, they have no right to be offended by an ugly epithet? Flat-out wrong.My saying that the F-word is as offensive to gay people as the N-word is to black people does not lose any validity simply because gay people have not been “traditionally” lynched, denied voting rights or treated as violently as black people. Then again, tell that to Matthew Shepard. That’s one noted and horrific incident, admittedly, compared to several hundred years of oppression and violence, and I hate to be flippant about it, but he and others like him have MOST CERTAINLY been “sought out” by those wishing to do them harm. Just because it hasn’t been going on long enough for you, they have no right to be offended by the word that’s likely being yelled at them while they’re being beaten? That’s why, I believe, your claim that I have no right to compare the two words due to relative injustice (or lack thereof), and that my analogy falls short,  is off-base. Prior to posting, I asked gay friends — black gay friends, in fact — about the power of those two words, and they said that the F-word is as offensive as the N-word. Period. A small “market research” sample size, yes, but so be it. Call it self-righetous or insincere if you want, I honestly don’t care because I — not you — know that I did not write with any ulterior motives or in the hopes of perpetuating a “media” myth. But while you got me fired-up again, I do appreciate the response because it keeps the dialogue going.“Is there a system in place designed to extract the talent of gay men while simultaneously exploiting them?”I guess he’s never watched Bravo. My God, Amant. What have you done to the football blog?! It’s CHAMPIONSHIP WEEK! There’s not a single football post on here. I guess no one else has good enough fantasy teams to distract them from all these worldly matters for another week. Well, my team’s in the title game, and where the heck else am I gonna go with questions like “What the heck happened to Joseph Addai?” The game was on ESPN, so all we got on his injury were comments like, “Well they say probable but he’s got his foot all wrapped up. (laughter) He doesn’t look probable!” Great insight. Sammy Morris had a decent enough game against Buffalo to warrant a start against the Jets this week. But I really wanna fit Braylon Edwards in the lineup somewhere. He’s had a great three weeks, and he goes up against Tampa. But then again maybe a banged up Addai against Houston would be a better call. I’m on the fence. I wish there was a blog or something that handled these issues…it’s coming, dan, it’s coming…patience. for now, addai’s ankle doesn’t sound as bad (read: high sprain) as originally thought, so he could be ready for HOU.oh, and it’s st. amant, not amant. common mistake with stupid names with periods in them.My God, St. Amant just didn’t sound right. What did your high school gym teacher call you when he was mad? “Gimme ten, St. Amant!”Mark. Got some problems. Championship weekend and my team’s a little banged up. Addai, who knows? Even if he goes he’ll probably lose carries. Sammy or Ronnie? Ronnie supposedly could start, but will Saban really ride Brown full blast coming off an injury with nothing to play for but pride? Or is Morris a better play? Here’s the real dilemma. I have Braylon Edwards who I can insert at flex but who do I replace, Morris/Brown or Addai? Is your team still in it? I hope it has less holes than mine. Also disappointed with Driver’s no TDs tonight. He got me a decent game but perhaps not championship caliber.With respect to Mark St. Amant’s uninformed response to my Stick and Stones response, either (1) you do not understand my point or (2) you do not want to understand my point.  Polling your friends as evidence of the validity of your faulty comparison is weak and you know it. It’s called incestuous amplification: when an individual selects a group that will echo or affirm his/her thoughts irrespective of how incorrect they may be.  Most notable practioner was Donald Rumsfeld, and the Bush White House is pretty adept at it as well.  Unfortunately the weight of legitimate authority overwhelms  you, and your select group of friends, regarding the inappropriate comparison of  gay oppression with that of Black Americans.  I suggest you check out a Columbia Law Review article entitled: (1) The Literary Argument for Heightened Scrutiny for Gays (citation: 96 Colum. L. Rev. 1753, 1783-1784 (1996); (2) and the website for the Jim Crow museum //www.ferris.edu/jimcrow, if you are interested in the truth, and developing an intelligent, informed point of view on the issue.  But if you are not, just continue your disingenuous, third-grade, close-minded approach to the issue, that remember, you put forth in the public domain.  (“I asked my gay and black friends” — that is soooo typical!) Happy Holidays!Some of us have fantasy football matchups to worry about, so allow me to simplify this thread. The original argument was that the F word was just as bad as the N word. Which is like comparing sticks and stones. And then Gary said that the N word was way worse. Then Mark argued that just because one group’s historical persecution is more legendary than another’s doesn’t mean the epithet/slur is any more hurtful. Then Gary called him the worst epithet of all, The B word, (Bush) and said there were some places online that supported his point.
Here’s the thing. Neither argument really has any salt. The original argument that perhaps there’s a double standard is wrong (I know St. Amant wasn’t directly arguing that, but that was the point of discussion). A few years ago Jeremy Shockey, a white man, called Bill Parcells, a white man, the H-word (short for homosexual) in a national magazine. Shockey got exactly the same treatment (nontreatment) as Porter got. He made a lame apology and the story was in and out of the papers in a week and a half. And no one has brought it up since. Obviously then, the double standard doesn’t have anything to do with the race of the man saying the epithet but with the race/creed of the group targeted by the epithet. And the bottom line is, The F word doesn’t sell papers. Does it hurt the gay community to use that word? Yes. But, and this has something to do with Porter’s logic, lots of people use that term, be it right or wrong, in joking fashion. It’s just more diluted than the concentrated, sticks in your throat, N word. That’s the difference. There are dozens of different slurs for homosexual. Some worse than the F word. But the N word is hyper concentrated. It is the one and only of its kind. It’s the bullseye racial term for African-Americans. And everyone knows it. The f word is not the same. It’s diluted. Get me? Which is why it doesn’t sell papers. Which is why no one cares if Joey Porter uses it. Not because he’s black. The argument, though, that the N word is any more villifying because of the level in which African-Americans have struggled as opposed to gays is wrong. That’s like saying Stalin was more evil than Hitler because he killed more innocent people. The bottom line is they’re both pretty freakin’ evil. It’s like the apples and oranges of evil. All right? Now is Ronnie Brown startable or not?Dan, you have not simplified anything, and if your concern was to get back to fantasy football topics as you assert, then you could have simply done so. It was unnecessary to weigh in on the issue; but obviously you wanted your point of view aired.Unfortunately, you have missed the point.  Don’t muddle the issues by bringing Stalin and Hitler into the conversation.  It is not about them, their systems of dominance and oppression, nor their evils.      The “N” word is a term that originated and exists to dehumanize Black people; its purpose was, and is, to relegate them to the bottom rung of America’s social hierarchy. Lynching, denial of the right to vote and jim crow laws were the dehumanizing systems associated with the “N” word, each meant to reinforce the other.  While those systems have been wiped out, the “N” word has not and it still carries the same meaning.  For example, recently when comedian Michael Richards (Kramer of Seinfeld)was heckled by a Black audience member, the first arrow he pulled from his quiver to respond was the “N” word; and he followed it with the response that it was not long ago when he (the Black audience member) would  have been hanging from a tree; the message was stay in your place, you are not equal to me, and at one time you were expendable.  Since this incident he has spent considerable effort trying to rehabilitate his image.  That’s the weight the “N” word carries.The “F” word is about masculinity, as well as gender and sex roles; very different than racism targeted at Black Americans.  A gay male that is discriminated against for being gay is considered less of a man; a black person that is discriminated against for being black is considered less than  a person.  So your faulty comparison of the words being equally evil is wrong and disingenuous. Its the same dumb-downed approach used by lesser media outlets: just make an oversimplified, incorrect, equalizing statement and everyone walks away happy. I suggest that you get back to your fantasy football picks because it is quite obvious that you cannot differentiate between fantasy and the real world.  It is interesting that all of these black athletes you spend so much time analyzing, you know nothing about their culture or history nor do you care, as evidenced by your uninformed comments.  Stick to the fantasy world. That’s the best place to be when you are in a state of denial.Wow. Did you read my comments at all? Obviously not because all you did here was re-state my point that the N word is more powerful than the F word. I used the term hyper concentrated to describe the same “weapon of choice” argument you are using. It’s obvious that both terms are different and both are the same. They’re both slurs used to degrade people. The point I make about Stalin and Hitler is not to say that black people and Gay people have been mistreated the same way. The point is, that such an argument is just plain stupid. Wrong is wrong. Why argue about who was wronged more? We have both made the point that the N word is a different animal than the F word. The only difference now is your total lack of respect. I wonder what Bell Hooks would say about the rage that you emit here? She would probably say it is healthy and maybe even helpful because of its heart but also hurtful in its representation of the point you are trying to make because of its demeaning tone. I don’t know you from Adam, but you write as if a personification of the “talented tenth” that Dubois envisioned, educated obviously, and willing to lead. But your rage here is not healthy and since you think yourself above us all, coming onto the fantasy football blog and then bemoaning us for showing interest in such a thing, you are also a personification of the downside of what Dubois theorized, or more specifically, the separation, the classism that caused Booker T Washington to speak out against Dubois. But I wouldn’t know about any of that. After all, it’s obvious I know nothing about black culture or history, nor do I care. All I care about is fantasy football. Do you do this on all the blogs? Come on and create a forum for your own agenda? I would like to read your posts on the movie blog; we probably share some similar views over there. Anyway, back to the fantasy world… Coming Beyonce!No Dan, the argument is not stupid.  It is not stupid because obviously that misconception (that those words are equal) is the central issue that sparked this debate, which has much larger societal ramifications. It is an important issue to me and I will not cheapen it nor be dishonest about it to placate anyone.  You are just playing with the scope of the issue here. If you committed first-degree murder, the penalty would be at least life imprisonment, or in some states death. If you were caught shoplifting, you may or  may not go to jail for a very short period of time.  Both acts are considered wrong, but one ascribes a much heavier penalty because of the value society places on each of the acts.  The same with the “N” and “F”, yes, they are both wrong, but the implications and societal value associated with each are enormously different.  And with a readership the size of the NY Times, and its respectability, I am going to make certain that this perspective is voiced, and given the opportunity to be contemplated.And no, I’m not a homewrecker.  I’ve never posted on a blog before, nor do I have any interest in fantasy football.  The Sticks and Stones article caught my attention as I was checking on the latest Knicks news (yes, I do admit to being a Knicks fan).  I follow the Knicks via the NY Times because I do not have to deal with all of the hyperbole offered by the other papers.   I am very intrigued by race and society in general, and in sports in particular; that is why I responded.It’s interesting how passion is interpreted as anger when expressed by a black man.  A black man  can only be angry or docile, he cannot experience the range of emotions everyone else does.  None of my postings have been written in anger. I strongly oppose unsubstantiated groupthink that gains traction and gets legitimated as truth, irrespective of its source.  I am swayed by arguments supported by facts, and yes, on some issues there is room for disagreement, and others there is not.The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans.
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more…
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more…
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more…
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more…
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more…FollowAdvertisement