Every week this contest gets harder to judge and harder to win, as more and more students post picks to fulfill “summer reading” assignments before the start of school. Week 6 saw a record number of entries (983), but we’d like to give a special shout-out to the schools and individual students who have been posting faithfully since June 17. We hope you’re having as much fun writing these as we are reading them.Below, the work of our winner, DavidWaldmanHuskieHonors11, and a list of the 15 runners-up and 21 honorable mentions that also impressed our judges this week. Keep ’em coming, everyone. You have until 7 a.m. Eastern on Aug. 26 to post your final entries of the season. Winner: DavidWaldmanHuskieHonors11 on “N.B.A to Move All-Star Game From North Carolina” Two sports achieve the title of most popular in America right now, basketball and football. While both are widely popular, the leadership from the organizations behind them, the National Basketball Association and National Football League, are headed in two vastly different directions. On the one hand, the NFL has been surrounded by controversy from Roger Goodell’s mishandling of numerous domestic violence cases. Conversely, since his promotion to commissioner of the NBA, Adam Silver has led with dignity, using his power for positive change. His first major move was the banishment of former Clippers owner Donald Sterling from the NBA because of his extremely racist comments over the course of many years. Recently, Silver again made a bold statement when he removed the 2017 All-Star Game from North Carolina because of its recently passed anti-LGBT laws. I am proud to be a fan of basketball knowing that the NBA stands for equality and firmly against discrimination. Also, I am extremely interested to see what steps Silver takes in the future in regards to discrimination. With many athletes speaking out against police brutality, including many in the NBA, I hope Silver supports these statements because the NBA can be a catalyst for positive change under the right guidance. During this important time in our country, I’m glad to see at least one sports organization is using their power for good.Runners-UpTamsyn B on “Down To Its Last Ashtray”BarnMic on “N.B.A. to Move All-Star Game From North Carolina”Andrew Coyne on “Knife Attacker Wanted to Rid Japan of the Disabled, Authorities Say”DavidGoBlueCHS16 on “His Tone Dark, Donald Trump Takes G.O.P. Mantle”Sophie Gerchikov on “Stephen Colbert Retires ‘Stephen Colbert.’ Please Welcome ‘Stephen Colbert.’”Samantha Grubb on “Period. Full Stop. Point. Whatever It’s Called, It’s Going Out of Style”Andrew Ham on “The ‘Ice Bucket Challenge’ Helped Scientists Discover a New Gene Tied to A.L.S.”Dante Kirkman on “Diary of an Editorial Cartoonist”Daniel Lee on “Yes, Slaves Did Help Build the White House”Asha Lewis on the photograph at the top of “Five Dallas Officers Were Killed as Payback, Police Chief Says ”Sophia Li on “In Africa, Birds and Humans Form a Unique Hunting Party”Ruby M. on “Climate Change Claims a Lake, and an Identity”RebekahMCHS2016 on “A Veteran Living in Squalor, and Allegation of ‘Staggering’ Abuse”Gabe S on “What Should a Powerful Woman Look Like?”Meha Srivastav on “When Everyone Can Be ‘Queer’, Is Anyone?”Honorable MentionsAdriannaMCHS2016 on “Mortal to Divine and Back: India’s Transgender Goddesses”Laura Barber on “Thumbelina’s Secret Architect, Creating Fairy Houses on a New Jersey Trail”Julia Bausano on “Questions Over Melania Trump’s Speech Set Off Finger-Pointing”CaitlinMCHS2016 on “New York Public Hospitals Use Emojis to Reach Young People About Sex”ColleenGoBlueCHS2016 on “The Long, Final Goodbye of the VCR”Juliana Cirillo on “Testing a Replay System to Give Soccer Referees Another Set of Eyes”Julia Drake on “Why Libraries Are Everywhere in the Czech Republic”Ashley Frazier on “Why Men Want to Marry Melanias and Raise Ivankas”Hannah Gonzalez on “Updated Brain Map Identifies Nearly 100 New Regions”Paige Lang on “Personality Change May Be Early Sign of Dementia, Experts Say”Huong Le on “Questions Over Melania Trump’s Speech Set Off Finger-Pointing”Claire McClannan on “African Tribesmen Can Talk Birds Into Helping Them Find Honey ”Sofia Micale on “Michelle Obama Joins Forces With Her Predecessor (and Former Adversary)”Theodora Moldovan on “England’s Reflexive Pronoun Epidemic”Zhou Peiyu on “Let’s Grow Up, Liberals”Mitchell Saisho on “Stem Cell Therapies Are Still Mostly Theory, Yet Clinics Are Flourishing”Rachel Suarez on “New York Public Hospitals Use Emojis to Reach Young People About Sex”Keegan Sullivan on “With Roger Ailes out, Will Fox News’s Influence on Politics Change?”TatianaMCHS2016 on “Strangled for Being Too Sexy”T.J.SEID2016 on “North Miami Police Officers Shoot Man Aiding Patient With Autism”Catherine Zhang on “Championing Optimism, Obama Hails Clinton as His Political Heir”Remember, any teenager anywhere in the world can enter our contest every week until Aug. 26 just by answering the question, What interested you most in The Times this week? To find the right place to post, check the top of this announcement for a link.Sign up for our free newsletter. Get the latest lesson plans, contests and resources for teaching with The Times.Advertisement