Updated 10:31 a.m. Good morning on this sleepy Wednesday.So many people love to hate the subway.But while many, as commuters, look to the system for Point A to Point B reliability, a niche group pays special attention to the subway’s signs.The no-nonsense signage is overlooked by some, but to an appreciative eye, it might just be a work of art.One Brooklyn graphic designer, Hamish Smyth, described the burgeoning affinity for the designs as three-pronged:• Interest has grown in the work of Massimo Vignelli and Bob Noorda, who were commissioned to create the signs in the 1960s.• Simpler designs have become more popular in recent years.• And of course, the subway is important, and cool, to a lot of people.“Those are kind of the three sweet spots,” Mr. Smyth said.Mr. Smyth, 28, said that in 2012 he found a copy of “Graphics Standard Manual” by Mr. Vignelli and Mr. Noorda, produced for the New York City Transit Authority and published in 1970.Mr. Smyth, along with his girlfriend, Alex Daly, and a colleague, Jesse Reed, reprinted the manual with the help of crowd-funding and the approval of the M.T.A.The project has led to a spinoff: posters featuring all 468 subway station signs.“There’s something about New Yorkers,” Ms. Daly, 27, said, “where we’re just proud of the subway, which is kind of like this dirty, crowded mode of transportation.”Here’s what else is happening: WEATHERLooks like a chance of storms in the morning, afternoon and evening.Spots of heavy rain a possibility, with a high near 83.IN THE NEWS• Move, cars, get out the way. A plane narrowly missed cars when it made an emergency landing on a Jersey Shore highway. [The New York Times]• Relatives of Eric Garner say they will still push for police reform after agreeing to a $5.9 million settlement from New York City. [The New York Times]• City voters seem to support Mayor Bill de Blasio’s harsh rebuke of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. But just barely, and that support diminishes statewide. [Daily News]• Another case is dropped involving Brooklyn officers in a gun-planting inquiry. [The New York Times]• An N.Y.P.D. sergeant, shot in the foot by another officer, sues the city. [DNAinfo]• The Brooklyn Borough President and other elected officials are slated to host a roundtable on changes to rent regulation law. [Daily News]• The guardian of a 91-year-old Greenwich Village woman lands in court over her rent-controlled apartment and surveillance cameras. [New York Times]• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Wednesday Briefing. COMING UP TODAY• Liberty hosts Stars, 11 a.m. (NBA-TV).• Sounds by Mozart, Berlin and others. A collection of musical talents perform classics in a quintet at Poe Park in the Bronx. 2 p.m. [Free]• The Soft Spot in Williamsburg is holding a free barbecue to celebrate its 10th anniversary. We’ll say it again: free barbecue in Brooklyn. 6 p.m. [Free]• The Prospect Heights Music and Arts Festival kicks off a five-day event highlighting Brooklyn musicians at multiple venues. 7 p.m. [$5 suggested donation per set.]• There’s no need to make any waffles to catch Shrek, Fiona and Donkey live at Highland Park in Queens. 7 p.m. [Free]• George Clinton brings his signature sound of funk and soul to Queensboro Bridge Park. 7 p.m. [Free]• For more events, see The New York Times Arts & Entertainment guide.COMMUTE • Subway  and PATH • Railroads: L.I.R.R., Metro-North, N.J. Transit, Amtrak• Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.• Alternate-side parking: in effect until July 17.• Ferries: Staten Island Ferry, New York Waterway, East River Ferry• Airports: La Guardia, J.F.K., NewarkAND FINALLY … MSNBC turns 19 today. The cable news network has spent its teenage years expressing itself, to put it mildly.MSNBC was originally broadcast in New Jersey in 1996 before moving to New York City back in 2007. In its first years, the network had yet to adopt the mostly liberal character it is now known for.The Times reported in 2007 that MSNBC’s most noticeable shift to the left — and the network’s first real acknowledgement that it had inadvertently become the liberal answer to Fox News — coincided with a ratings wave from “Countdown With Keith Olbermann,” a show that is no longer broadcast.And that’s pretty much all it took — the network was able to add viewers as frustration grew during George W. Bush’s presidency.MSNBC’s headquarters at 30 Rock in Midtown are just a few blocks away from Fox’s offices, making our lovely concrete jungle the heart of the partisan network frenzy.Do you like getting the news from cable networks, or do you find it jarring? Let us know in the comments or by using #nytoday.We have updated this to fix our error that MSNBC’s origins were in New York.New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late morning. You can receive it via email.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Tatiana Schlossberg and Benjamin Mueller, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.New York Today is still going strong! Though no longer on City Room, New York Today continues to appear every weekday morning, offering a roundup of news and events for the city. You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com or in the morning, on The New York Times homepage or its New York section. You can also receive it via email.Metropolitan Diary continues to publish! Since 1976, Metropolitan Diary has been a place for New Yorkers, past and present, to share odd fleeting moments in the city. We will continue to publish one item each weekday morning and a round-up in Monday's print edition.  You can find the latest entries at nytimes.com/diary and on our New York section online. City Room®, a news blog of live reporting, features and reader conversations about New York City, has been archived. Send questions or suggestions  by e-mail.Advertisement