Few major languages have felt the effects of globalization and modernization more acutely than Mandarin. The increasing use of keyboard devices, for example, has caused many Chinese to forget how to write characters by hand, to the extent that there is even a popular television show in which contestants compete to write complicated characters from memory.Another consequence of China’s advancing global integration is less unique to Chinese: the incorporation of foreign words. While the absorption of such words is often seen as a positive mark of a society’s cosmopolitanism, the reaction in China has been anything but positive – at least according to state media.In an editorial last week, People’s Daily lambasted the influx of foreign words, accusing them of having “harmed the purity and health” of the Chinese language.“The use of imported words is becoming more widespread every day,” the newspaper wrote. “It’s become so serious that the foreign words are even showing up in regular publications and formal documents, giving rise to resentment among the public.”Citing the increasing prevalence of terms like WiFi, C.E.O., M.B.A., C.B.D., V.I.P. and PM2.5, the editorial sought to explain the reasons behind what the newspaper called “zero translation,” focusing specifically on English loan words written in the Roman alphabet.“Why are Nuojiya [Nokia] and Motuoluola [Motorola] translated into Chinese, but not iPhone and iPad?” the newspaper asked. “When English absorbs Chinese words they are all transliterated, so why does Chinese have to be mixed up with so much English?”Several linguistics experts interviewed by People’s Daily offered multiple theories for the phenomenon, ranging from “laziness” among Chinese who use English abbreviations because it requires less effort, to the “might of the Western culture” and a lack of talented translators.“In the past, if you asked for the name of a famous translator – Fu Lei, Zhu Shenghao, Xu Yuanchong, Lu Gusun, etc. – a bunch of names would come to mind,” Wu Bo, a professor at China Foreign Affairs University in Beijing told People’s Daily. “Today how many can you name? Phoenix feather and unicorn horn!” he exclaimed, using a Chinese idiom indicating the extreme rarity of an object.Another reason for China’s linguistic borrowing, according to Xia Jixuan, a government linguistics expert, may have to do with China’s stage of development. “The cultural self-confidence of the Chinese people will increase as China becomes stronger,” Mr. Xia told the newspaper. “At some point, the flood of foreign words will slowly ebb,” he said, and existing loan words may even be converted into Chinese formulations.While the People’s Daily piece stopped short of calling for the elimination of foreign words altogether, it did emphasize the need for more purposeful adoption of foreign words and the use of Chinese translations of foreign terms where possible.On the first official list of regulated Chinese translations, released last September, most of the foreign terms were abbreviations, such as “I.Q.” (intelligence quotient), “I.T.” (information technology), and “W.H.O.” (World Health Organization). Some of the official translations on the list, such as the Chinese for “AIDS,” were already more popular than the original English. Other foreign terms, such as “G.D.P.” or “PM2.5”, continue to be widely used, despite the government’s promotion of the Chinese translations. According to a separate editorial in People’s Daily, the second and third batches of official translations are to be released later this year.An example of a successful conversion from a foreign word into Chinese, said Mr. Xia, has been the evolution of the word “email.” After starting out in Romanized English, he said, the word was converted into a phonetic string of Chinese characters — 伊妹儿 (pronounced yi mei’r) — before morphing into its two most common present-day iterations, 电邮 (dianyou), literally “electronic mail,” and 邮件 (youjian), which simply means “mail.”Still, not all linguistics experts agree that the increased use of foreign words is necessarily a threat to the Chinese language.“There are no pure languages,” Victor Mair, professor of Chinese at the University of Pennsylvania, said in an email. Not only is constant change in a language “natural,” but “borrowing words from other languages is actually a healthy phenomenon,” wrote Mr. Mair, citing English and Japanese as examples of “powerful” languages that have vast numbers of borrowed words.One major reason why English loan words in Chinese far outnumber Chinese loan words in English, Mr. Mair said, is because many terms, particularly those related to science and technology, originated in the West and it takes time to translate a term and popularize the translation.Furthermore, linguistics experts have said that the widespread use of the pinyin Romanization system in China means that almost all Chinese of a certain age are familiar with the Roman alphabet and thus are comfortable seeing and using Roman letters.The apparent drive to reduce the use of foreign words in Chinese is part of a larger campaign to diminish the influence of Western culture, and in particular the English language, in China. Last December, the Education Ministry announced that it was removing the English section from the national university entrance examination.In 2010, CCTV, the state television broadcaster, was reported to have received a notice urging it to remove from its programs Western abbreviations such as “NBA” (National Basketball Association) and “MP3” in favor of their long-winded Chinese translations: “Meiguo guojia lanqiu xiehui” and “dongtai yingxiang zhuanjia yasuo biaozhun yinpin cengmian 3,” respectively. (A glance at CCTV’s “NBA” page online suggests how successful that campaign was.)The disapproval of foreign words is evidently not an attitude shared by all Chinese, as can be seen by the online reaction to the People’s Daily editorial.“If we are to go by the experts, wouldn’t you say Chinese became impure a long time ago?” asked one microblog user, citing a number of foreign words that have been absorbed into the language, such as the Mongolian word hutong for alleyway and the Sanskrit word chana (originally ksana), meaning “an instant.”Other comments were more snarky. “How come you didn’t mention anything about how simplified Chinese has harmed the purity of the Chinese language?” asked one user, in reference to the Communist Party’s campaign in the 1950s to promote literacy by redrawing many of the traditional Chinese characters.“What will happen to the CCTV icon on TV?” asked another user.If precedent is a guide, foreign terms are likely to remain a fixture in Chinese.“When the most famous literary character of modern Chinese literature is named 阿Q” — Ah Q, the protagonist of a novella by Lu Xun — “and when the Chinese stock market could scarcely function without A, B, ST and G,” said Mr. Mair, “the alphabetphobic scholars” who are campaigning against the use of Roman letter expressions in Chinese would seem to have “lost the battle before they began it.”Sinosphere, the China blog of The New York Times, delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times’ distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people.
			Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Read more…
			Some disagree, saying that there has been a surge in voluntary donations as China announced it would end organ harvesting from death-row prisoners. Read more…
			For many Hong Kong fans, the World Cup qualifier was as much a political contest as an sporting one. Read more…
			Along with revulsion, Chinese leaders and many citizens also voiced a more complex mix of expectations and emotions, rooted in rival views of the country’s own problems.Read more…
			President Ma Ying-jeou of Taiwan defended his decision to meet with President Xi Jinping of China, rejecting accusations that he had undermined Taiwan’s sovereignty. Read more…Advertisement