AdvertisementSupported byBy Kathryn Shattuck8 P.M. (Fuse) PIRATE RADIO (2009) The time: Britain in the mid-1960s, when the BBC, aided by the government, kept official radio channels mostly free of rock ’n’ roll. The place: a tanker off the British coast, where rebel broadcasters (Philip Seymour Hoffman, Bill Nighy and Rhys Ifans, above at microphone) blasted the Stones, the Kinks, Jimi Hendrix and the Who over the airwaves. This angers a government minister (Kenneth Branagh) who wants to keep listeners safe with high culture and educational programming. The director of this movie, Richard Curtis, “isn’t concerned with exploring why gatekeepers might want to maintain the divide between high and popular culture,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times. “He wants to party. So he piles on the comic high jinks, lobs the jokes and cranks the splendid tunes.” Mr. Nighy can also be seen as a financially distressed British retiree lured to Jaipur, India, in John Madden’s “Best Exotic Marigold Hotel” (2012), at 4:45 on MoreMax, and as the washed-up rock star Billy Mack, angling for a comeback, in Mr. Curtis’s “Love Actually” (2003), at 8 on Showtime.7 P.M. (MSG) NEW YORK RANGERS VS. PHILADELPHIA FLYERS Sam Rosen and Joe Micheletti call Game 1 of the National Hockey League’s Eastern Conference quarterfinals from Madison Square Garden. John Giannone reports from rinkside. Pre- and postgame coverage is provided by Al Trautwig, Bill Pidto, Ron Duguay E. J. Hradek and Dave Maloney. 8 P.M. (13) NYC-ARTS Philippe de Montebello, the former director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the journalist Paula Zahn host this program, which looks at “Audubon’s Aviary: Part I of the Complete Flock” at the New-York Historical Society, and “In Bloom: Flowers of the 18th Century,” an object lesson from Christie’s. Christina Ha reports on “Carrie Mae Weems: The Museum Series” at the Studio Museum in Harlem, “Carrie Mae Weems: Three Decades of Photography and Video” at the Guggenheim and more. On “MetroFocus,” at 8:30, John B. King Jr., the state education commissioner, discusses Common Core standards and testing. Stone Phillips discusses his documentary, “Moving With Grace,” inspired by his mother’s battle with dementia. And an Autism Awareness Month segment looks at the advocacy group Autism Speaks.8 P.M. (NBC) COMMUNITY The season ends as the study group investigates the legend of Russell Borchert (Chris Elliott), a disgraced former Greendale dean, as Subway continues its plan to take over the college. In “Parks and Recreation,” at 8:30, Leslie (Amy Poehler) and Ben (Adam Scott) put on an auction to raise money for the unity concert.8 P.M. (ESPN) BAD BOYS (2014) This latest “30 for 30” entry, produced by NBA Entertainment, looks at the Detroit Pistons of the late 1980s and early ’90s (above, in 1989), and their willingness to do almost anything to win.8:30 P.M. (TV5Monde) LE BOULET (2002) Moltès (Gérard Lanvin), serving life for murder, provides dating advice to Reggio (Benoît Poelvoorde), a prison guard, in exchange for his playing the lottery each week. But when Reggio’s wife steals a winning ticket and flees to Africa, Moltès breaks out to retrieve it. Alain Berbérian and Frédéric Forestier directed this comedy, shown in French with English subtitles.9 P.M. (CBS) THE CRAZY ONES  This two-part season finale begins as Simon (Robin Williams) and his team try to save a library from closing, and Gordon (Brad Garrett) is used in their campaign. Gayle King appears as herself and Melody Thomas Scott of “The Young and the Restless” plays Flora, the librarian. Later, a corporate takeover forces Gordon to call on the board to vote, leaving Simon’s ex-wife (Marilu Henner) with the final say.10 P.M. (IFC) PORTLANDIA Carrie (Carrie Brownstein) is disappointed when her brother (Josh Homme) and his new boyfriend (Nick Swardson) come to town and would rather do Jägerbombs and pretend to fight instead of visiting cafes and going antiquing.11:35 P.M. (ABC) JIMMY KIMMEL LIVE: BEHIND THE SCANDALABRA After the season finale of “Scandal,” at 10, Mr. Kimmel interviews its creator, Shonda Rhimes, and shows a “Scandal” blooper reel as well as the full anthology of his Spanish-language spinoff, “Escandalo.” KATHRYN SHATTUCKAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS