AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian YeeKahton Anderson had all the status symbols a 14-year-old in his world could want: Air Jordans and Reeboks, sometimes a new pair every month. Name-brand sports clothes. A new PlayStation 4.And, lately, a silver .357 revolver.The gun flashed recently at rush hour on the B15 bus, crossing from Clinton Hill to Bedford-Stuyvesant, in Brooklyn, when Kahton fired toward another teenager, the police said, instead striking a 39-year-old man on his way home. The man died soon after. Though Kahton had not yet graduated from middle school, he was taller than the detective escorting him out of the local precinct house.With Kahton to be prosecuted on murder charges as an adult and the victim, Angel Rojas, buried by his family in the Dominican Republic, New York City has been left to wonder how what the police said was a petty turf war between “crews” of children barely into their teens could breed such random, deadly violence, particularly since the murder rate, especially killings by strangers, has dropped so much in recent years. Yet in the narrow world these teenagers inhabit, in the poorest patches of Bedford-Stuyvesant, East New York and Brownsville, Brooklyn, violence is as thick as smog, alliances as fluid as water, quarrels as big as the Internet. The grievances behind their bullets make sense only to them.The police say clashes between teenage crews, mini-gangs that grow out of blocks or housing projects, now account for 30 percent of all shootings in the city. But most of the time, those caught in the crossfire are rivals and friends, other combatants in the ceaseless struggle for dominance. On March 20, the dead man was an innocent bystander.“I swear to God, I feel sorry for” Mr. Rojas’s family, Kahton’s father, who gave his name only as Mr. Anderson, said outside the Brooklyn courtroom where Kahton was indicted on second-degree murder charges on Wednesday.But he defended his son, saying he was simply protecting himself: “Kahton is a child, who thinks like a child. Kahton’s a tall child. He’s a boy; I’m a man.”Mr. Rojas, who was on his way home between his two jobs when he was shot, “did not deserve to die so tragically, and we will hold the defendant Kahton Anderson responsible for taking the life of this innocent and hard-working man,” said Kenneth P. Thompson, the Brooklyn district attorney, in a statement. Kahton is being held at a juvenile detention center in the Bronx. The police identified him as Kathon, but his lawyer and family said his name is Kahton (pronounced kah-TAHN).Kahton did not grow up in a housing project, but he was drawn there anyway. His crew at the Tompkins Houses, where some of his schoolmates lived, was called the Stack Money Goons: a name that spoke to the bravado of the teenagers who adopted it, vowing to make money, somehow, and to let nothing get in their way. Their name was scrawled on the walls, their fights and gun battles the soundtrack to summer nights.Among all his friends at Tompkins and at his former school, Middle School 57, Kahton, an eighth grader, seemed to be one of the least needy.He lived in a small, tidy apartment on Gates Avenue with his mother, a United States Postal Service letter carrier who regularly attended parent-teacher conferences. On his PlayStation, earned, a relative said, through schoolwork and chores, he played NBA 2K and Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 with friends.A forward on the basketball team with a decent shot, a height more like that of a 17-year-old than a 14-year-old and a love for the Denver Nuggets and the Chicago Bulls, Kahton spent many lunchtime and after-school hours playing pickup games with friends.He was popular with girls and boys alike, a clown who invented nonsense sounds in class just to make his friends laugh. After school, he would stop at the bodega for a can of mango-flavored Arizona Iced Tea and packs of Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups to share.“Kahton, you wouldn’t think he’d have a gun,” said Katoya Williams, 14, who was passing by the Stack Money Goons’ sidewalk haunt on Thursday afternoon. “Of all the boys, I wouldn’t expect him to have one. He’s real decent.”Several students at M.S. 57 said Kahton had been president of the student council and took honors classes. Yet he was frequently in trouble. Sometimes it was for violating the school’s uniform code or disrespectful chatter in class, a school official said. Sometimes it was worse: He had a sealed arrest from 2011, and often, high-school-age members of a crew students knew as “R&B” or “RB’z” — the initials stand for “Rich Boys” — loitered outside the school, waiting to fight him.About three weeks after he got into a fight near school last year, he was transferred to Elijah Stroud Middle School in Crown Heights, at least in part because of the threatening presence of the teenagers who continued to wait for him, some friends said.But he seemed to do no better at Elijah Stroud, where he had been suspended from the early fall until very recently, said a sixth-grade English teacher at the school who asked not to be named because she was prohibited from speaking publicly about individual students. Such suspensions are common, she said. Under Education Department policy, only students with serious infractions, such as injuring or trying to injure other students or teachers, can be suspended for more than 10 days.It is unclear whether Kahton took classes at an alternative learning center during his suspension, as is standard under department policy. But all fall and winter, he had a more consuming preoccupation than school or even basketball: his crew’s escalating war with a rival group of teenage boys.A block from where Kahton and his friends passed time on the sidewalk of Tompkins Avenue — teasing girls, eyeing passers-by and running around — are the Marcy Houses, visible down Stockton Street. They look just like the Tompkins Houses. But proximity has bred enmity for years, since before Jay-Z, Marcy’s favorite son, rapped about the Tompkins boys who were “foul just like us.”The Stack Money Goons had recently homed in on one Marcy crew, the Twan Family. It was named in remembrance of Antoine White, a 17-year-old who died after being shot by an off-duty police officer Antoine was trying to rob, said Shanduke McPhatter, a former member of the Bloods gang who now runs an anti-gang outreach group.The Twan Family and S.M.G., as other teenagers called it, began crystallizing about a year and a half ago, said Deputy Inspector Michael LiPetri, the commanding officer of the 79th Precinct in Brooklyn. Like other crews, which can form by breaking off from more established groups or which can reflect new friendships, they mushroomed according to a logic of their own.“There’s a new one coming up today, one going down tomorrow,” Mr. McPhatter said. And unlike gangs like the Bloods that could operate as tightly as an organized-crime ring, with hierarchies, rules and a mission, he said, these groups are less defined. “There is no ‘for,’ there is no common purpose, there is no goal. It’s basically survival, it’s basically safety, it’s protection. Some may do it because they don’t have that leadership at home, and they just want to have people around that they feel comfortable with.”Crew members often get guns from older neighbors or buy weapons by selling stolen smartphones, said Tony Herbert, the president of the Brooklyn East chapter of the Rev. Al Sharpton’s National Action Network.It is an environment where petty slights, from a challenging glance to jealousies over a girl, have enormous consequences. A territorial battle between Marcy and Tompkins crews left one teenager dead and three more injured in July. Several members of S.M.G. and Twan Family have been shot in the past, and the crews exchanged gunfire at least once within the past month, Mr. LiPetri said.Facebook and other social-media sites amplify the grievances, with photos of crews sneaking into rival groups’ territory and videos of past fights circulating until they muscle everything else from a teenager’s online landscape. Past embarrassments and triumphs that can leave one side fuming and the other crowing linger on social media, stoking resentments.Kahton’s conflict with the Twan Family seemed rooted in little more than the territorialism and animosities of his crew, but boys from the other crew had been needling Kahton for months in person and on Facebook, said a relative who would not give his name because the family had decided not to speak to reporters.“They keep on picking at you, picking at you every day, telling you they want to kill you,” the relative said. The shooting weighs on Kahton, who has told his family that he did not mean it. He said he was “just protecting his life.”Yet Kahton’s family never realized how “magnified” the situation had become, the relative said.The conflict came to a head that Thursday evening, when girls riding the B15 told members of the Twan Family that Kahton was sitting in the back. After sending scouts to check, Kahton’s rivals boarded the bus, a police official said. In a security video of the scene, one of them pulled at his waistband, as if for a gun.One shared flash of recognition later, a bullet was on its way. J. David Goodman, Michael Schwirtz and Julie Turkewitz contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS