Kenny Smith, a Queens native, was drafted by the Sacramento Kings in 1987 with the sixth pick over all. During a 10-year N.B.A. career, Smith, a point guard, also played with Atlanta, Detroit, Orlando and Denver, and he was with Houston when the Rockets won championships in 1994 and 1995.A highlight was his performance in Game 1 of the 1995 N.B.A. Finals against the Magic. Smith made seven 3-pointers and the Rockets won in overtime, 120-118.After retiring in 1997, Smith, 47, became a studio analyst for “Inside the N.B.A.” on TNT.Smith is the in-game commentator for NBA Baller Beats, a new Xbox 360 Kinect-controlled game that uses a real basketball.You won consecutive titles with the Rockets. Can the Heat win it all again?The only thing that can hold them back is their lack of size. They added great players. Rashard Lewis and Ray Allen are great players, but they’re still small. When they play against Dwight Howard, the Gasol brothers and big teams, can they rebound and run? They get a lot of their transitions off of steals. So if you don’t turn the ball over, I think at times, they’re not a great rebounding team because of their size.Do you like the Lakers with the addition of Dwight Howard and Steve Nash?If you’re the Lakers and you’re not in the Western Conference finals and going to win a championship, your season’s not a good season. You have four guys that are in the top 10 at their position. Then you have another guy who always comes to the gym and says: “Who is the hardest guy to defend on the other team? Can you give me him please?” I’m talking about Ron Artest.Do you have a sleeper team?I think the Denver Nuggets are going to be a lot better. All of their forwards were not there the whole year. Chandler, Gallinari are guys that are tough covers. And with George Karl at the helm, I think that’s going to be a team that’s going to be difficult to defend.What team do you see falling back?The question mark has always been the Knicks. What are the Knicks? All great teams have an identity. The Knicks still don’t have one, no matter how many players they bring in or bring out. When you walk into the arena at Madison Square Garden, you don’t know what style of play are they going to play. You don’t know. Are they going to run today? Are they a half-court team? Are they a defensive team? You have to have an identity.Who’s better, the Nets or the Knicks?If they played a seven-game series, it will go seven and the Nets would have the ball down 1 with two seconds to go. That’s how close they are.Which player do you like watching the most?Last year, it was Kevin Durant. I like the way he approaches the game and his effort level. I like guys who have a lot of responsibility. And if their team doesn’t win, it’s because they didn’t do some of the small things. Not the guy who all you have to do is to score to win. That’s why I don’t always like watching the Heat because their best players don’t have a lot of responsibility every night.You have an underrated player who might become a star this season?I think the Toronto Raptors’ second-unit team has a bunch of guys that can become stars. I think their second unit is better than their first unit. Which is kind of strange. Guys like Ed Davis, Amir Johnson and John Lucas come off the bench, and they’re so different from Andrea Bargnani and the first unit that uses finesse because they are so physical.Other than the top pick, Anthony Davis, what rookie do you think can have the biggest effect?Harrison Barnes. He’s in the right place. He’ll have the luxury to grow at Golden State. His mistakes won’t be game-winning or game-losing mistakes. Everything Anthony Davis does will be under a microscope. If he doesn’t do things correctly, his team loses.What’s the secret to getting along with Charles Barkley on “Inside the N.B.A.”?The one thing I learned early — and we became great friends — is to stick to your opinion. When you believe something, Charles is great at either overtalking you or intimidating you out of your thought process. But for me, growing up and being a New Yorker, we’ve seen all of this, we’ve heard all of this. New Yorkers are great talkers. Charles actually appreciates people who will stand their ground.How good are you at playing Baller Beats?I’m pretty good. My N.B.A. skills are still somewhere around. I can get to certain levels and certain songs I’m able to do. It has different levels. But you put it on the Baller Beats level and I challenge Chris Paul to do it successfully.Your wife is a model on “The Price is Right.” How are you at playing the game? I’m good. I’m a good shopper. I’m better than she is. My wife’s from England, and she didn’t know the history of the show when she first got on it. I told her this is the icon of American game shows. I know every game. I actually went on the show and told Drew (Carey) I want to spin the wheel. That’s the only thing I want to do. If you let me spin the wheel my life is complete.What’s in your iPod?I have my old school section, and Marvin Gaye stays in that section. I have my rap section that always has Jay-Z. And a new artist I have is Meek Mill. My R&B section has Chris Brown and my daughter, Kayla Brianna. She signed with Interscope, and she’s working on her album now. I told her this is weird that I like your music.A version of this article appears in print on 12/09/2012, on page SP10 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Sleepers and Stars, Seen From the Desk.
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Howard Beck, Nate Taylor, Beckley Mason and others, can now be found on the Pro Basketball section front.Read more…
			Jason Kidd threw out the first pitch at Yankee Stadium before Game 2 of the Yankees’ doubleheader against the Dodgers, the latest in a multitude of appearances he has made since the Nets hired him Thursday. Read more…
			With more speed on the floor, Miami smothered the San Antonio Spurs in Game 4, while the Heat’s two biggest stars, LeBron James and Dwyane Wade broke out.Read more…
			The hiring of Jason Kidd as head coach may be a victory in the war for New York headlines with the Knicks, but it doesn’t seem to be the smartest decision, says William C. Rhoden.Read more…
			After a news conference on Thursday announcing that he would not run for mayor of Moscow in the fall, Mikhail D. Prokhorov, the Nets’ owner, also said that there was a shortage of N.B.A. coaches with star power.Read more…FollowAdvertisement