
This was a team submitted by another user. To make your own, Reset »  New York City high schools have produced 211 graduates who made it to the N.B.A. or A.B.A.Brooklyn has the most graduates who made it to the N.B.A. and A.B.A. The borough&apos;s most fertile schools have been Thomas Jefferson, with 10 players, followed by St. Francis (6), and Boys and Girls,
                                                    Tilden and Lincoln (5).DeWitt Clinton is the city&apos;s most productive school, with 18 players. St. Raymond and Cardinal Hayes (4) rank second in the borough. Tiny Archibald (Clinton, class of 1966) was a playground legend and
                                                    Mott Haven native; another Clinton standout was Dolph Schayes, out of the University Heights section of the Bronx, who led the N.B.A. in free-throw percentage three times. Both Archibald and Schayes
                                                    were named one of the 50 greatest players in N.B.A. history.La Salle (7 players) and Rice (6) lead Manhattan. Before closing in 1984, Power Memorial (5) produced Lew Alcindor (later Kareem Abdul-Jabbar), arguably the best player to come out of New York City; Mario
                                                    Elie and Len Elmore. Elie, known as Super Mario for his clutch 3-point shooting in Houston’s 1994 and 1995 championship seasons, also won a championship with San Antonio in 1999. Elie is currently
                                                    a Nets assistant coach.Parochial schools like Archbishop Molloy (6 players) and Christ the King and Holy Cross (5) have groomed many players in the borough. In the least populated borough, only St. Peter’s and Port Richmond have produced N.B.A. talent. St. Peter’s Ray Corley, a West Brighton native, played three seasons in the N.B.A. Corley advanced
                                                    to the finals with Syracuse as a rookie in 1949-50, but the Nationals lost to the Minneapolis Lakers.New York City&apos;s basketball prowess was established early by stars like Dolph Schayes, Bobby Wanzer and Dick McGuire. Schayes, out of University Heights, was a scorer and rebounder known for his high-arcing,
                                                    two-handed set shot. Schayes led the N.B.A. in free-throw percentage three times. He led Syracuse to a championship in 1954-55. The 91-year-old Wanzer, the oldest living Hall of Famer, was a complete
                                                    player and one of the best outside scoring threats in the 1950s. He won a championship with Rochester in 1951 and was the first to shoot over 90 percent from the free-throw line (1951-52). McGuire was
                                                    nicknamed Tricky Dick for his trademark blind feeds and needle-threading passes. McGuire recorded 386 assists in his rookie season, which was then a record with the N.B.A. Tilden&apos;s Ossie Schectman,
                                                    93, is credited with scoring the first basket in N.B.A. history.Bob Cousy, a Hall of Famer and one of the N.B.A.&apos;s 50 greatest players, began his professional career in 1950, the year the N.B.A. integrated. Cousy, regarded as one of the N.B.A.’s great point
                                                    guards, was called the Houdini of the Hardwood for his ambidextrous ballhandling and no-look passes. He received 13 All-Star selections, won six titles with the Celtics and was named the league M.V.P.
                                                    in 1957. Two of the game&apos;s early African-American stars were Boys and Girls’ Si Green and Metropolitan&apos;s Ray Felix, who averaged 10.9 points and 8.9 rebounds per game and was the second
                                                    African-American to be named an All-Star.In this decade, New York City&apos;s high schools graduated great players like Connie Hawkins and Roger Brown in 1960, Lew Alcindor (who later became Kareem Abdul-Jabbar) in 1965, Tiny Archibald in 1966,
                                                    and Kevin Joyce in 1969. Hawkins, a Bedford-Stuyvesant native, began his career in the A.B.A. He was barred from the N.B.A. until 1969 for his association with a point-shaving scandal at the University
                                                    of Iowa. Despite his delayed entry into the N.B.A., Hawkins played for seven seasons in the league.DeWitt Clinton&apos;s Tiny Archibald is a headliner in any look at the 1970s. The decade also brought the creation of the Ernie and Bernie Show -- after the city stars Ernie Grunfeld and Bernard King joined
                                                    forces at the University of Tennessee -- and a host of options for anyone&apos;s all-mutton-chop team. Mark Jackson, Kenny Smith and Pearl Washington made this a guard-heavy decade, one that did wonders for the profile of city players and the emerging Big East Conference.St. John&apos;s lured many of the city&apos;s top players to Queens in the 1990s. Kenny Anderson and Stephon Marbury made headlines, but Felipe Lopez made the cover of Sports Illustrated.The influence of rising prep school and private school programs began to drain some -- but not nearly all -- of the city&apos;s talent in this decade.Kemba Walker left Rice for the University of Connecticut, but he saved some of his best work for returns to the city for the Big East tournament.More than half of the 200-plus city high school players who made it to the N.B.A. or A.B.A. did so as guards.Ft. Hamilton&apos;s King brothers, Bernard and Albert, earned the distinction of being the first family of Brooklyn hoops. Bernard, the more famous of the two, came out of Ft. Hamilton in 1974 and became
                                                    an N.B.A. all-star with the Knicks and Nets. A knee injury forced him to reinvent himself as a perimeter player later in his career.Aside from Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, easily the most dominant center to come out of the city, there have been notable others, including 6-11 Ray Felix, who played for eight seasons in the ’50s and early
                                                    ’60s.Three of these players, Red Holzman, Al McGuire and Lenny Wilkens, were inducted as coaches. Wilkens also entered the Hall of Fame as a player, one of only three people to do so. The two others are John
                                                    Wooden and Bill Sharman.Power Memorial&apos;s Lew Alcindor and Andrew Jackson’s Bob Cousy each earned six championships, but Seward Park High School, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, leads the count with eight titles,
                                                    all won by Tom Sanders from 1960-73 with the Celtics.Being a high-school All-American is not always a predictor of professional success. Chris Mullin went on to become a Hall of Famer, but others lasted only a few seasons in the N.B.A.Sources: basketball-reference.com; National Basketball Association 
View More Multimedia »

                                                Here’s who a handful of former players, scouts and sports journalists chose as their all-New York N.B.A. teams. Or select and share your own team.
                                                New York City&apos;s biggest basketball stars have come mostly from Brooklyn.