AdvertisementBy BEE-SHYUAN CHANGSEPT. 5, 2012
WHAT do Justin Bieber, Taylor Swift and Kendall Jenner have in common?Aside from the obvious (idols of the OMG-generation), they’re campaigners for the fourth annual Fashion’s Night Out. The shopping extravaganza, which chaotically collides with New York Fashion Week, is taking over the city again on Thursday.Over 500 cities in 19 countries will participate this year. In New York, major brands like Ralph Lauren and Gucci have scaled back their participation. Even so, more than 700 stores will stay open late. As before, there will be limited-edition merchandise, musical performances, free drinks, special deals, celebrity sightings and, oh, a few fashion designers.Go by neighborhood or, if you’re more discerning, hop by theme. (Karaoke, anyone?) Taxi tip: don’t expect to hail any, especially near retail areas. For more information, go to the hyperorganized event Web site, fashionsnightout.com. Or see our top picks for the rollicking evening:A is for AzealiaThe Harlem rapper and lyricist Azealia Banks has parlayed her indie buzz into a T by Alexander Wang campaign. If that hasn’t anointed her into fashion’s front row, then her performance at MAC’s SoHo store just might. The cosmetics brand is also selling a limited-edition semi-matte lipstick in a dark plum called Yung Rapunxel ($15), named after Ms. Banks’s alter ego.MAC SoHo, 506 Broadway, 7 to 10 p.m.B is for BabiesIn contrast to the general circus mood, Carolina Herrera has planned a child-friendly carnival at her Madison Avenue shop. The designer teamed with Jessica Seinfeld’s charity Baby Buggy for an evening of magic shows, face painting and balloon animals. Tots and moms can walk away with limited edition, matching leather wrap bracelets for $50 each.AdvertisementCarolina Herrera, 802 Madison Avenue, 5 to 7 p.m.C is for ComebackCyndi Lauper, who has a memoir out this fall, along with new tunes and lyrics for the coming Broadway musical “Kinky Boots,” will perform at Manolo Blahnik.AdvertisementManolo Blahnik, 31 West 54th Street, 7:30 to 11 p.m. Draw Something Enough with the ABC’s. It’s time for adult games: Kate Spade is holding a game night at its SoHo store, with the brand’s president, Deborah Lloyd, facing off against Brad Goreski in a heated contest of Pictionary. Customers can play, watch or refuel on milkshakes and grilled cheese from the Milk Truck parked curbside.Kate Spade, 454 Broome Street, 7 to 10 p.m.Puss in Balenciaga BootsCat fight! Karl Lagerfeld may wax about Choupette, his white Siamese cat, but for Fashion’s Night Out, Pumpkin, the calico kitty that belongs to the Vogue creative director Grace Coddington, is the reigning feline. Balenciaga introduces an accessories collection that includes an orange printed canvas and calfskin tote featuring Ms. Coddington’s illustrations of Pumpkin ($1,000).Balenciaga, 542 West 22nd Street, 6 to 9 p.m.Free Makeovers? If you’re prepared to brave the crowds, several stores are offering makeup services, some free. Bergdorf Goodman, celebrating its 111th anniversary this year, kicks things off on the beauty level with brow, lash and nail specialists. Aerin Lauder is also dispensing advice. At Saks Fifth Avenue, Minx nails and Suno offer splashy manicures, the designer Erin Fetherston and the hair stylist Edward Tricomi lead a bang-trimming session, and the designer Rebecca Minkoff runs a ponytail bar and smoky-eye station. At Industria Studios in the West Village, Revlon is offering $50 makeovers with Gucci Westman, its global artistic director, and nail art by Jin Soon.Bergdorf Goodman, 754 Fifth Avenue, 3 to 6 p.m.; Saks Fifth Avenue, 611 Fifth Avenue, 6 to 10 p.m.; Industria Studio, 40 Bethune Street, 6 to 9 p.m.British InvasionOn the heels of the London Olympics and the queen’s jubilee, several fashion brands are channeling Brit style. L. K. Bennett, Ted Baker and Smythson of Bond Street, all based in London, are offering an assortment of British-themed cocktails and tunes. L. K. Bennett even wrangled a double-decker bus to shuttle guests between the Time Warner Center and the London NYC hotel. Expect a guest appearance by the English chef Gordon Ramsay.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.L. K. Bennett, 10 Columbus Circle; 6 to 11 p.m.; Ted Baker, 34 Little West 12th and 107 Grand Street; 6 to 10 p.m.; Smythson of Bond Street, 4 West 57th Street; 6 to 9 p.m.Calling Kanye?Perhaps the best way to spot Kanye West, the rap star and part-time designer, is to follow Kim Kardashian, the reality-show star and part-time designer. She holds court on the third floor of Lord & Taylor, hawking her new fragrance, True Reflection. Can’t deal with the Kardashian fans? Go up a flight: “Project Runway” alums will be on the fourth floor, celebrating the show’s 10th year.Lord & Taylor, 424 Fifth Avenue, 6 to 11 p.m.Hoop DreamsBasketball stars are the new mannequins. Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat will be stationed at Calvin Klein’s Madison Avenue store to sign copies of his book, “A Father First: How My Life Became Bigger Than Basketball.” The New York Knicks player Amar’e Stoudemire will be at Saks Fifth Avenue. And the Knicks City Dancers, the team’s cheerleaders, will be at the NBA Store.AdvertisementCalvin Klein, 654 Madison Avenue, 6 to 8 p.m.; Saks Fifth Avenue, 611 Fifth Avenue, 6 to 10 p.m.; NBA Store, 590 Fifth Avenue, 6 to 11 p.m. FortunetellersAre six-inch stilettos in your future? Find out in the West Village, where Christian Louboutin is featuring tarot card readings at his boutique. A few blocks up, fortunetellers will be stationed at Diane Von Furstenberg, and joined by the “Girls” star Allison Williams, Vogue’s Meredith Melling Burke and the D.J. Solange Knowles.Christian Louboutin, 808 Washington Street, 6 to 9 p.m.; Diane Von Furstenberg, 874 Washington, 6 to 11 p.m.Kings of KaraokeOpening Ceremony, celebrating its 10th year, is installing a noraebang, or private Korean karaoke room, in the Ace Hotel. Proceeds ($1 a song) benefit the Broome Street Academy. At Michael Kors, the designers Kate Upton and Nikki Reed will judge karaoke contestants sourced from YouTube and nominated by public vote. Who needs Simon Cowell?Opening Ceremony at the Ace Hotel, 1190-1192 Broadway, 6 to 11 p.m.; Michael Kors, 667 Madison Avenue, 6 to 11 p.m.An earlier version of this article incorrectly listed that the makeovers at the Revlon event were free, they are in fact $50.  Also, the location of the event is Industria Studio at 40 Bethune Street, not Industria Superstudio.A version of this article appears in print on September 6, 2012, on Page E2 of the New York edition with the headline: Fashion’s Night Out and About.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »