Stumbling across a list of Major League Baseball salaries or a similar list featuring N.B.A. stars is a bit like driving through an exclusive section of Greenwich, Conn., or Beverly Hills, Calif. The amount of money involved is so staggering that it doesn’t seem real.Alex Rodriguez makes $30 million a year? Kobe Bryant earns $25 million? That $18 million split-level has 12 bedrooms, 9 bathrooms, 2 swimming pools, a tennis court, and a bowling alley?Hey! Look! A unicorn just jumped over that Maserati!When the Major League Soccer Players Union releases salary information, as it did on Friday, it’s a dose of reality for all parties. It’s perhaps even a little depressing.Dozens of M.L.S. players earn salaries in the mid-$30,000s-to-$50,000 range – a far cry from the stratospheric numbers seen in other sports. Juninho, a rising star with the Los Angeles Galaxy, will make $65,625 this year – about what a New York City hotel bartender makes. Even David Beckham, the face of M.L.S. and an international superstar, earns $4 million a year in guaranteed compensation from the league. To put that in perspective, the Philadelphia Phillies will pay the barely adequate corner infielder Ty Wigginton $4 million this season.Beckham, in fact, took a $2.5 million pay cut to return to the Los Angeles Galaxy this season.Want more statistics? Here are the current minimum salaries in the five major American sports:N.H.L.: $525,000
M.L.B.: $480,000
N.B.A.: $473,604
N.F.L.: $390,000
M.L.S.: $33,750How can this be? Last year M.L.S. attendance grew seven percent, to 17,872 per game, surpassing both the NBA and NHL in average attendance.Are M.L.S. owners a miserly bunch who just want to keep all the money for themselves? Hardly. The fact is, there is simply far less revenue to go around in M.L.S. because the TV contracts lag so far behind those in other sports. According to Forbes, the N.B.A.’s current TV contracts pay the league more than $1 billion per year, and will be increasing by at least 30 percent when the next contract is signed. The N.F.L. receives some $7 billion in annual TV rights. And some baseball clubs, including the Texas Rangers and the Los Angeles Angels, have agreed to multibillion-dollar TV contracts of their very own.M.L.S., by comparison, currently generates somewhere in the neighborhood of $27 million in annual TV revenue. Yes, million with an “m.” Those other leagues? Billion with a “b.” A few extra zeros go a long way toward explaining the salary discrepancies between M.L.S. and other major American professional leagues.The good news for M.L.S. players — not to mention M.L.S. fans eager to see the highest-quality product on the field — is that more money is finding its way to the on-field talent. In 2007, only four M.LS. players earned $1 million or more: Juan Pablo Angel, David Beckham, Cuauhtemoc Blanco and Claudio Reyna. In 2012, there are nine players above the million-dollar mark.The revenue is trickling down to the league’s middle class as well. Five years ago, 103 M.L.S. players made $100,000 or more per year, and only 33 players reached the $200,000 plateau. Today, 226 M.L.S. players earn six-figure salaries, with 84 receiving at least $200,000 in guaranteed compensation. Granted, in 2007 there were 13 teams in the league and now there are 19, but player salaries are clearly on the rise.All told, the league has spent more than $800 million on player salaries in the last decade, according to M.L.S. Commissioner Don Garber, which is not bad for a league in its 17th season.Will Major League Soccer salaries ever reach the lofty heights of those in the N.B.A. and M.L.B.? Not soon, but stay tuned. Better yet, start tuning in — and encourage a friend to do the same. If M.L.S. can draw better TV ratings, that could lead to more lucrative deals, which in turn could translate to increased revenue and – in all likelihood – better quality talent on the field.John Godfrey is a regular contributor to the Goal blog. Follow him on Twitter.Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more…
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more…
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more…
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more…
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more…FollowAdvertisement