AdvertisementSupported byStill ProcessingBy Wesley Morris and Jenna WorthamIt’s our season finale! We’ve spent our second season keeping a critical eye on the unreality of America and dissecting the systems of power that uphold the status quo. Last week, a series of news articles reported that Harvey Weinstein, one of the most powerful movie producers in Hollywood, has been accused of sexually harrassing women for decades. Twitter is ablaze with other women and men sharing their own stories of sexual misconduct at the hands of the powerful, spawning conversations about power and fame, privilege and punishment. The aftermath has raised questions about the commonality of harassment — and has forced us to confront our own complacency. We were compelled to talk about the cultural petri dish that allows assault and abuse to perpetuate and about what might be changing, socially and technologically, that is encouraging survivors to come forward. We also discuss the recently released “Blade Runner 2049” which somehow felt lacking, as if science fiction can’t keep up with the reality of the moment we’re living through. And before we sign off for a few months, we relive some of our favorite moments from this season. Thank you for listening, and we’ll talk to you soon!From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above.Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series.On your iPhone or iPad:1. Open your podcast app. It’s a pre-loaded app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link may help.)2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “Still Processing” and select it from the list of results.3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives.4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.On your Android phone or tablet:1. Open your podcast app. It’s a pre-loaded app called “Play Music” with an orange-and-yellow icon. (This link may help.)2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for “Still Processing” and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results.3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free.4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.This unedited transcription from the podcast may contain errors. Please listen to the corresponding audio before quoting from it.JW: I’m Jenna Wortham.WM: I’m Wesley Morris. We are two very exasperated culture writers at The New York Times.JW: I mostly write about how humans relate to technology.WM: I mostly write about how popular culture relates to humans.JW: Well, this is Still Processing. Hi, Wesley.WM: Listen. We’ve got to HOV lane through a lot of stuff today, and I mean, what’s happening with you? What’s going on in your brain? I’m still recovering from last weekend, so I’m going to take a second.JW: Get it together.WM: I know it’s Thursday, but still.JW: I’ll start with a bright spot. Our girl Cardi B hit number one on the charts, so shout out to us, because we got our prediction for song of the summer right. It is Bodack Yellow.WM: But is it though?JW: Yes!WM: I mean, it’s number one on the charts.JW: It’s number one on the charts, it’s number one psychically, spiritually, qualitatively, quantitatively, it’s there.WM: Yes. Fine. I can’t, the charts, you can’t dispute the charts.JW: Move it along. Just one more time, just for old time’s sake...BODACK YELLOW, CARDI BJW: So, obviously, the world is a little bit in crisis. There have been storms after storms after storms that are hitting every island — name an island. You get an island, it’s probably been destroyed. So, as someone who is observing all of this happen and trying to figure out how to be effective and how to help, how to contribute time or money, I’ve been noticing — have you noticed this? — that there’s a lot of donation collection happening via social media. It feels like people are way more...it’s not surprising, but it’s been interesting to observe the interest in supporting grassroots organizations versus supporting something like the Red Cross and even people taking it upon themselves to collect donations via PayPal or Venmo, pick up items, and then take them to the center themselves and document it on Instagram as proof of it actually happening. And I guess it’s just really illuminating something for me in how little we trust institutions and how our relationship to what we think the government can do is completely changing. I mean, it’s changing of course, but it feels new, it just feels really new this year.WM: Yeah. I mean, it’s funny that you put it that way because I was thinking, well, this technology has finally caught up in a way that has made it possible to do this stuff, but I think the disillusionment is a huge part of that too. Next!JW: I was at the beach on Sunday, having the most glorious, beautiful, decadent, delectable afternoon.WM: I checked in on you to make sure you went.JW: Had to get it in. And you know, I wasn’t on my phone all day, thankfully. I went home, fell asleep, sun drunk, you know, happy, burned, and dehydrated. Woke up the next morning, opened my phone, and the first thing I saw was a picture of a Georgia Tech cheerleader, a black woman with a big afro, kneeling among her teammates, mostly white — there was one Asian American woman in the midst — and I just burst into tears. I just felt like that picture really encapsulated for me the loneliness sometimes that accompanies the black experience in America, where no one really knows what you’re going through, and you’re just alone in that sea of otherness. And that woman’s name is Raianna Brown and she, in my mind, is a modern day hero. Shout out to her.WM: I saw that photo and it really is powerful. I’ve got a couple things. Number one, Nicki Minaj, one of the people saying congratulations to Cardi B on Twitter, and people were trying to foment some kind of beef between — Cardi B is taking Nicki Minaj’s spot, like two Adams can’t exist in the same place at the same time. Well, not on the charts, you can’t be number one at the same time, but it doesn’t mean that Nicki Minaj can’t be Nicki Minaj because Cardi B exists. And Nicki Minaj, of course, realizes this and sends a tweet. And I’m not even going to be cynical about it, because I don’t even know where I’d start. I just think it’s a genuine — I’m just going to take it on its face and just be like, yes, more of this.JW: Cardi B openly said that every single working female rapper that she knows hit her up and was like, congrats, which is amazing. I mean, that’s how it should be. There’s enough to go around.WM: No more beef.JW: Anyway, what else you got?WM: So, Saturday morning, I’m minding my business, I know that the president had had this rally in Huntsville, Alabama. I didn’t really know what had happened, but you know, I find out later of course that he is talking about how any son of a bitch who takes a knee instead of standing at the National Anthem and saluting the flag, those sons of bitches need to go. NFL issues a statement. I see the statement and it’s a paragraph, and it doesn’t even say anything. All it says is we stand for unity, not divisiveness and these comments — doesn’t specify what comments — are the opposite of what we stand for. And we give to charity is basically what the statement said. I’m like, well, there must be more to it than this. I am looking around the internet for like ten minutes trying to find the rest of this statement. That’s all NFL commissioner Roger Goodell had to say about what happened on Friday.JW: Oh, boy.WM: Fast forward to Sunday, when all the chaos breaks loose. You know what? This is what we’re talking about this week, so let’s just start talking about it. I don’t have anything else.JW: I mean, this is the thing of the moment.WM: This is the thing of the moment. So, here’s what we’re going to do. We’re just going to talk about what is going on, what actually happened, right, on Sunday and Saturday around the league, and how scary and strange and weirdly exciting this is, but also, ultimately, depressing.JW: Let’s do it, I’m ready.WM: We’ll be right back.JW: Okay, Wesley. Let’s just start from the beginning, because you know, I don’t watch the sports, but I watch the Twitter, I get the images, I get the updates, and I don’t really know how this all began. A year ago, more or less, Colin Kaepernick, a player for the 49ers, starts sitting and then eventually kneeling during the National Anthem as a personal, peaceful silent protest against police brutality.WM: Yes. And the treatment of black people at the hands of the police.JW: Correct.WM: Other players join him, and eventually Colin Kaepernick was let go from the 49ers, and you know, there’s a lot of outcry about his joblessness, but over the course of a year, it seemed like there were isolated people not saluting or standing, but the controversy, the scandal seemed to die down. But a year ago, for about a few months, it seemed like we were really tense and something was going to happen. You know, something bad. Colin Kaepernick’s patriotism was called into question. He’s always been a person of interest for the last year. A lot of the conversation around him became a matter of his employment status and why he wasn’t playing for a team. And no team would sign him even as a backup quarterback, which he’d be perfectly good at for almost any team in the NFL.JW: Okay, so that’s the backstory, that’s the backdrop. And then on Friday, Donald Trump is in Huntsville, Alabama, which not coincidentally, it was the heart of the lynching belt, right, okay. Gives a speech, and is basically like —WM: It’s not a speech, by the way.JW: Well, whatever, he just, he fires off some comments.CLIP OF DONALD TRUMPJW: But is this just completely unprompted, just like a personal bone he has to pick?WM: I’m inclined to be more cynical than that. We can get into that later. But yes, basically, he starts going off on all the things that are wrong with professional football. People “protesting” the National Anthem or “boycotting” the National Anthem. You know, the brain injuries are making it so that they are changing the way the players tackle each other. He misses the violence of the sport, now, you know, he wants that to come back. It’s kind of, I mean, I wouldn’t call it unhinged, but it was so random. It was the sort of thing he typically does.JW: So, basically, more or less out of nowhere, he just starts shooting off the mouth.WM: Right. But two things happen. There’s this Huntsville, Alabama rant, and what he says during it, which is the thing that I think started this whole thing is not the no hits and the sons of bitches, the sons of bitches need to basically be fired. The NFL has a job to do and it’s to fire these treasonous football players from the team. And so the other thing that happens is the media starts asking Steph Curry, who plays for the Golden State Warriors, our current reigning NBA champions, whether or not he’s going to go to the White House to be received as the NBA champions by the president. And we can play a clip of what he said.CLIP OF STEPH CURRYJW: And then Donald Trump hears about it, gets on Twitter and talks about it, and then LeBron fires back like, you bum, he already said he wasn’t going to go, which is when I entered the picture, because that’s what caught my attention.WM: You bum is powerful.JW: You bum is hilarious. I was like, anyone who wants to put this on a fanny pack, I’ve got Venmo, hit me up. Like, that is great. You bum is amazing. So that’s when I enter the picture, I start to see this happen on Twitter. And at first, it’s funny to me. It’s like a funny, you know, I’m like, this is hilarious. Yeah, like, get him, you know, at the president. But then I start realizing —WM: Think about what you just said, by the way.JW: I know. But then I start to understand the optics of what he’s said and where we’re at that moment in what the president has come out against and for. So, he’s not willing to call out white supremacists who are protesting, sure, but certainly not peacefully whatsoever. He’s not willing to decry any of their actions, but yet, he’s willing to take aim and call for the firing and real action against these players. So, I start thinking about that juxtaposition and I get deeply, deeply sad. And then my family chat started blowing up, and that’s the one that I don’t look at, but the one where my mom screenshots to me what our white family is saying. And one of my cousins was like, who cares? These guys are all thugs anyway, more or less. And then I realized, it’s not even about who is going to the White House or not. It’s not about whether or not people have the right to protest. It’s again about black entitlement, black respectability, white expectations of blackness, and really just like, not taking black pain or black trauma, or the black experience in America seriously. That racism doesn’t exist. We all need to get over it and move on. Oppression doesn’t exist. Systemic injustices don’t exist. This is what I start to realize. This is about way more than just a football game.WM: I got really upset partially because I didn’t know what to do. I also felt like my reaction first was not as a black person but it was as a human being who had been waiting to see what this president was going to do about Puerto Rico, which has been devastated by Hurricane Maria. These are our citizens, who have no electricity, no potable water. There’s going to be a food shortage. It’s bad, and it’s the American government’s responsibility to help solve this. And this man has said virtually nothing about that, but wants to go in on people standing or kneeling during the National Anthem, which is their right as American citizens to do. I didn’t know where to start. Sunday, I know what happened in London, so I assumed that there would be other protests during the games happening in the United States. I personally had been taking a knee on televised football, for any number of reasons which we can get into later. So, I haven’t watched any games in their entirety all season, but I knew Sunday was going to be loaded. I had two friends who were meeting some other friends at a bar near my house. I met them, and we’re all concerned about what’s going on, and it was a sports bar. And there are people there — you know, every game is on every TV, and so people sit where they can see the game that corresponds with their affiliation. But the five of us are just talking about what’s going on, we’re having the meta conversation. And during this conversation, one of the people I’m with at this bar notices that people are hearing us talk about what we feel is the injustice being done, and he points this out. And I had been mildly self conscious about it, but then he points this out and I got scared. I don’t frequently get scared in Brooklyn, but I was at this bar and I just felt...exposed. I felt exposed in a way that I hadn’t ever felt before, and it was fine. I just kept eating my buffalo wings and you know, we didn’t stop what we were talking about, but I felt very observed, and unwanted, right.JW: Well, yes, because — I mean, not to interrupt, but it’s because you know, since the election, we can kind of feel fairly confident in our Brooklyn, liberal presenting enclaves that we’re all in agreement, things have been a mess since the election. But there’s something about sports and large public events like that, and football in particular that people feel should be exempt from anything having to do with politics, as if those are not already completely, totally loaded arenas. So there’s this feeling of like, we don’t get a break from any of this? Now I have to think about the kneeling during the football?WM: It’s like what I told you yesterday about the hot dogs, right? You love hot dogs...and then somebody tells you what’s in a hot dog.JW: Don’t get mad at a 60 Minutes documentary that lets you know what’s in your hot dog. Don’t eat the hot dog.WM: Right. You want to get mad at me for telling you what you’re eating.JW: Listen. We all know where we were when we were unplugged out of the Matrix, and yeah, it sucks, and I’m so sorry. You had it good longer than the rest of us, okay? We’ve been knowing that the woman in the red dress was a simulation. Like, I’m sorry. I know it hurts. I know it’s difficult. But welcome.WM: Yeah, no, and I don’t know what percentage of football fans are going to get to maybe stage two or step two where they begin to really question certain things about the league and about this presidency, and about what’s going on in this country. I mean, I don’t know, maybe we should take a break and figure out, we’ll mix this up a little more and make it a little more complicated. But there are real questions to ask about what we’re supposed to do with all of this and what are the delusions that we have or the complacencies that we have. They’re not delusions, they’re complacencies, and these things have been in our lives for a long time and this particular president is forcing us to question things that we probably should have questioned before.JW: Well, let’s take a quick break and come back and let’s muddy the pot, because there’s a lot to get into.WM: Alright, let’s just say immediately that we don’t have any solutions for anything that we’re going to talk about. This story is a mess. The situation is a mess. I do think that all of the entanglements here are worth just working out and talking about.JW: There are a lot of threads to pull. There are historical threads, there are contextual threads, there are socioeconomic threads. There’s a lot to sort of look at why this is so loaded and why it is about more than just a game.WM: One thing I think we should definitely talk about first is this idea that — why do you got to bring politics into football? Why are you messing up my football with politics?JW: Right. And what people really mean when they say politics is racism.WM: Yeah. Why bring the outside world — Steve Mnuchin, our treasury secretary, went on one of those Sunday morning talk shows and was asked about this, about the Trump comments on Friday.CLIP OF STEVE MNUCHINWM: I mean, sir.JW: It is also interesting because I think there is a conception in this country that we don’t want our entertainers — and I’m including athletes in that category — to use the platform that they’ve been given. We want them to just come and sing and dance, come play the game, and get off the field. I just don’t know where that expectation ever came from, as if these people aren’t actual human beings, with ideas and thoughts and rights, hopes, wishes, dreams, fears. That’s been the sentiment that’s been echoed over and over again, which is, you know, what do you have to complain about? Just play the game.WM: Right. Well, maybe these people do not know that our defense department has been giving the NFL money for the last couple years, anyway. Two years ago, John McCain and Jeff Flake, two senators from Arizona, basically issued this report that looked into the almost $7 million that the defense department had been giving the NFL — just for recruitment purposes, that the league was being used to get guys to join the military. There are all these salute the troops days. The league has sort of given itself over to all kinds of causes. Breast cancer just isn’t as politically fraught as police brutality. And by the way, the league didn’t give itself over to police brutality. The thing about Colin Kaepernick and what he started is that he took, he forced the league in some ways — I mean, it’s like, I don’t want to give Roger Goodell and the NFL credit for too much here. I think individual players risked a lot over the weekend.JW: And let’s also be a little bit cynical too, in the sense that the New York Jets posted these photos of linked arms on the field with the caption, unity. I mean, I don’t know what that’s supposed to be about. I don’t get the tiers of demonstrations, either. Some people are standing, some people are kneeling, some people are just not on the field and we don’t know what’s going on. So, what started a year ago specifically dealt with racial injustice and police brutality. What’s happening now is sort of a push back against Donald Trump and the assault he unleashed on the owners of these teams, which also even using that terminology is weird, because yes, they are owners, but we’re also talking about bodies. You know, black bodies, specifically, right, because the majority of the players tend to be black. Majority of the audiences tend to be white. There is a weird racial dynamic that’s happening, but the team owners aren’t necessarily taking a stand in the same way that Colin Kaepernick was taking a stand. They’re taking a stand in the sense of like, don’t mess with our business, Mr. President.WM: You know what happens to me if I fire all of the people who are going to kneel and boycott?JW: Like it’s easy to say, like it’s great that these owners came out and are linking arms in a line with their teammates, their players, but at the same time, it’s like, they are all, in all likelihood, probably trying to avoid a strike. Trying to avoid loss of advertising. They’re trying to protect their own business interests.WM: Jenna. Can I be even darker than that?JW: Yeah! Go dark.WM: You know, one of the things that has always made me uncomfortable about professional sports in this country, particularly as they concern the NBA and the NFL, both leagues in which most of the teams are owned by white men, most of the people playing on these teams are black men. What happens every spring and early summer?JW: They get bought and sold.WM: Yes, they do. I’ve never been comfortable with that. The people who own these teams are called owners. And one of the highlights of the ownership exchange is having these men sit at an audience and then get up — not on an auction block, but you know, once you get your team, you get your hat, you go up and you hug the master, the master owner, Roger Goodell. I will never be able to shake the sort of inherent racial infrastructure of the way these sports work, and —JW: Of course. And let’s not forget that there is a degree of brutality involved in all of these sports. Obviously football is one of the most violent, but professional athleticism comes with very high tolls, and I think it’s been interesting to watch the sort of notion that because these players are well compensated, they don’t feel, they don’t deserve the right to feel whatever they’re feeling. And you know, comparatively, right, yes, they are well compensated, but in terms of how much money is being made off of them, it’s pennies, first of all. But second of all, there’s no amount of money that can compensate for all the things that come with repetitive brain injury. I mean, it’s just, it’s really appalling that that’s been like the number one sort of response I’ve seen on Twitter, which is like, you should be grateful. You know? You should be grateful we let you even play the sport.WM: Listen. In a lot of cases, these men have chosen to play the sport because they love it. But I also think it’s important to point out that this is a sport in crisis. Unlike the NBA, the NFL is at a real crisis point. There’s too much science now on the effects of playing the sport. The ratings are down. I mean, Trump talked about that, and he wasn’t wrong. The ratings are down. Can I be extra cynical? I actually think the reason that the NFL statement from Roger Goodell was so inexplicably short and vague — I’m not going to say he called the president and said, yo, can you hook me up? But I think this is ultimately at least temporarily going to be good. We weren’t talking about brain injuries, and we should have been, because that’s the other thing that happened in the league last week was the revelation that Aaron Hernandez, who played for the New England Patriots, went to prison for murder, killed himself in prison. He stopped playing when he was about 24 or 25 years old. He had massive, severe, some of the worst deterioration they had ever seen, these doctors. But we weren’t talking about Aaron Hernandez on Sunday. We were talking about black people and these teams protesting our National Anthem. And I think that we’re risking getting far away from a lot of things that we actually should be talking about. I mean, Puerto Rico, Kim Jong Un? I mean...this is an important thing that I think is maybe like the fourth most important thing, or the thing that has been deemed fourth most important in the way this presidency is being covered in the last week. He called Kim Jong Un Rocket Man and basically vowed to destroy North Korea. That to me is the number one story followed immediately by the destruction of a whole island. That he hasn’t said S-H-I-T about!JW: Right. Well, but then you have to really take it a step back and understand that there is, like what we assume to be kind of haphazard and unhinged and you know, feels really out of left field or things that feel really random, it’s hard not to believe that the man does not know how to control the news narrative. He’s done it his entire presidency.WM: He’s doing it right now!JW: Well, that’s what I’m saying. Like, I think we have to really look at what we’re not talking about, and I think we have to really start to understand that we’re all being played. We’re all pawns, and we always realize it way too late.WM: Yep. Some of these owners gave Trump a million dollars last year.JW: A piece.WM: Oh, not together, sorry. Individually. $7 million by seven different owners was given to the Trump campaign. Shad Kahn, who owns the Jacksonville Jaguars, is one of the people who donated a million dollars, but also stood with the team on Sunday. The cognitive dissonance to me, interesting. The number of people — and I don’t know if this has happened in your world — but the number of people who are surprised by anything this president says...like how much room is there for you to still be surprised?JW: I guess I just keep thinking about our friend of the pod Ta-Nehisi Coates’ piece recently for The Atlantic about America’s first white president and how whiteness doesn’t want to engage with whiteness, and just sort of accept that Donald Trump is a white supremacist...accepts something about whiteness and power that’s sort of dangerous. Anyway, the number of jokes I saw from people that I respect on Twitter about the “take a knee” thing was really upsetting. And I think we’re really at an interesting turning point culturally and in our society where Donald Trump, America, the powers that be don’t care about black people. They don’t care about brown people either, which is why Puerto Rico is being left to rot and we’re not even talking about it or thinking about it, and why people in my community and various circles are collecting money via PayPal to buy diapers to drive them to someone who is going to get them to Puerto Rico because we can’t count on any of these institutions to do anything for us. And that, to me, is a real breakdown of what, of how I thought this country and frankly the world is supposed to function.WM: Yeah. I mean, I’ve never felt this degree of hopelessness in a way, but I’m not totally hopeless, right. I think the really interesting thing that has happened from the standpoint of what these players have been saying, what LeBron James has been saying and what Steph Curry has been saying, none of this is really about any particular personal affront or offense. I mean, LeBron James’ political statements have been not as an individual or not on behalf of himself but as a member of a larger group, be it when he was with the Miami Heat and those guys all wore hoodies after Trayvon Martin’s shooting. He has a real sense of how teams operate, and that is version of what you saw on Sunday. The other thing that was happening with those protests was they were aimed at the president. They were aimed at a sitting president of the United States. It was a bunch of professional athletes who play “America’s sport” — sorry, baseball — standing up to the words of a president, the dare of a president. That’s wild.JW: Right. Challenging the president. Basically, you’re also saying your words are meaningless, like we’re not going to get fired, and you don’t really have that much power.WM: I want to bring this back to Colin Kaepernick as we depart because I think it’s important to think about what he, what he started, and why it bothers people, right. You know, other people like Eric Reed who played with him on the 49ers and also kneeled with him, he’s been more vocal than Colin Kaepernick has. You know, because Colin Kaepernick, we have not heard from.JW: He’s pretty quiet.WM: He has not spoken to anybody about this in almost a year. I think that’s important because people tried to make to make this seem like he was doing this as part of a publicity stunt. That was part of the conversation. Well, maybe if he makes himself too valuable, like the 49ers won’t let him go, and he’ll be so desirable if they do let him go that any other team in the league will pick him up because he’ll be a draw. That didn’t happen, and he didn’t start going on Jimmy Fallon or Stephen Colbert talking about these issues while having no job. He has sort of handled this with a grace and a poise — even though he said some things that I didn’t necessarily agree with, and he didn’t vote — but I think that what he has started and what he has made us think about, without having really said very much is amazing. And it is powerful. My other question though — is he going to get a job? Not out of this, but he’s a quarterback. He is the center piece of the team apparatus. That is typically a white job. It is typically done by a particular, you know, type of white male. Colin Kaepernick is a very handsome man. This is not my point. It is just that he’s black. There aren’t very many black quarterbacks in the league. And I wonder if he had done this and not been a quarterback — who had also gotten to the Super Bowl, by the way. I mean, he wasn’t just some random dude.JW: Oh, people loved Kaepernick. I mean, he was beloved.WM: I wonder what the difference would be there. I wonder if he would have a job. I wonder now what the risk in having him play — this is why I’m inclined to be cynical about this, because there’s no reason not to have Colin Kaepernick be your backup. I wonder what the lesson is here. I mean, for the owners.JW: Well, what’s been interesting to me is watching this migrate beyond the NFL, right. Like Stevie Wonder kneeled recently during a performance. Carla Hall, who is a chef who cohosts The Chew, who was a contestant on Top Chef, she has this cooking show on ABC in the mornings. She posted an Instagram video that was like, it’s like her and one of her cohosts, I guess, they like say something and slap hands, and they’re like, if you agree, take a knee. Which made me really happy because I was like, finally, we can have a good version of the damn ice bucket challenge, so I just feel that there is a way in which that this is migrating beyond — and the elasticity of what it means to take a knee is a little bit troubling, because we do keep migrating away from Colin Kaepernick’s original...WM: It’s going to be a meme.JW: But there is power in that visibility, and I just hope that at some point, we do remember why this began in the first place. And it wasn’t actually to protect the business interests of NFL owners, right. Or the long term career prospects of NFL players. It was about specific instances of racial injustice and police brutality, and I just keep thinking about that. I also want to get in a time machine and go, I want to rewind it back a little bit. You know me, did some research online, and I found out something very interesting about the origin of our National Anthem. Most people know Francis Scott Key wrote it in the 1800s, it was eventually scored by John Philip Sousa and then in the ’30s became known as the National Anthem. I don’t know when it was integrated into football, but it’s been in our country for a very long time. But what Francis Scott Key in particular was responding to — most people know, he was watching the British fight the Americans in Baltimore, and he was moved by this fight for freedom and for liberty. But there’s a stanza that is usually dropped out that refers to slaves, but in particular, it refers to American slaves, right, who ran away and joined the British to fight against Americans, and he was watching that, he was watching black people fight against white Americans, runaway slaves, literally fighting for their lives, fighting actually for their freedom that Francis Scott Key is like luxuriously writing about and romantically writing about. Like, people who were actually fighting for their own freedom and the freedom of the generations that come after them. That is what Francis Scott Key was also talking about. He was very disgusted by that. So, there is a lot of loaded symbolism and a lot of loaded significance in what that song means in particular to black people and what it means now that this is the thing that people find so disrespectful. Like, how dare you disrespect this song and this flag, and it’s also like, but my dude, has that song or that flag ever respected us? Like, I don’t think so. So again, we’re, we never have the full picture, and I think there is this idea — and this is really what people are angry about when they have to get, you know, when football is no longer a pleasure, when sports are no longer a pleasure, when Instagram is no longer a pleasure because you have to think about what it means to take a knee. It’s that the lie of racial equality or the lie that we’re somewhere other than where we actually are in America has been exploded. That’s what people are mad about it. You’re just mad that you had to take the red pill. You’re just mad that the blue pill’s not an option anymore.WM: Yeah, you’re mad that you know what’s in that damn hot dog. And it’s not just thigh. Anyway, that’s our show.Wesley Morris is a critic at large for The New York Times and a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine. Jenna Wortham is a staff writer for the magazine.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS