AdvertisementBy STEPHEN LABATONNOV. 27, 2007
WASHINGTON, Nov. 27 — In the face of a lobbying blitzkrieg from cable television executives and their lobbyists, the head of the Federal Communications Commission said this evening that he had struck a compromise to salvage but scale back his agenda to regulate the industry more tightly.The compromise was a significant though not total victory for the cable industry, whose executives and lobbyists had worked to erode support for the agenda of the chairman, Kevin J. Martin, among his fellow commissioners. Among other things, consideration of a controversial finding proposed by Mr. Martin —  that the industry had grown so dominant that the agency had expanded authority to impose other regulations — would be put off for months.But the compromise would also impose some limited new regulation on the industry. And it enabled Mr. Martin to say that he was still able to force action  that he and some consumer groups maintain could help to make programming more diverse and ultimately reduce cable costs. One of the new rules, for instance, would make it significantly less expensive for independent programmers to lease access to channels.“As a package, these are all important steps,” Mr. Martin said in an interview this evening, referring to both the cable provisions and others that he said the agency would adopt. One would extend the “do not call”  registry for five years, and another would enable lower-power radio stations to get on the airwaves.AdvertisementConsumer groups, who have been allies with Mr. Martin on the cable issues and began the day fearful that his agenda would go down in defeat, ended up relieved that he was able to salvage parts of it.AdvertisementBut cable industry lobbyists also said that they were pleased that they had been able to kill or modify much of the package.“The bottom line is we dodged a huge bullet,” said a top industry lobbyist who declined to be identified before the commission took a formal vote.As in the past when the commission faces difficult issues, the meeting today was repeatedly postponed to give time to the commissioners to hammer out an agreement.Mr. Martin is a rare Republican appointee of President Bush who has not been afraid to impose stiff regulations where he says there are market failures. In the case of the cable industry, he has repeatedly complained about increasingly higher prices, vulgar programs and market tactics that he  says discourage competition from other pay-television providers.But in the process, he has alienated cable television executives, who have complained to senior White House officials and lawmakers in recent days that Mr. Martin has overreached. They say he has sought to change the business models of the industry’s largest players in an ill-advised effort to help the telephone companies, which have begun to challenge the cable industry by offering television service.Mr. Martin disclosed earlier this month that the commission would issue a report that would give the agency expanded powers over the cable industry after making a formal finding that the industry had grown too dominant. But after the industry and its supporters in Congress sharply questioned the basis for the finding, Mr. Martin was unable to muster a majority of the five-member commission in support of the report.The data originally used for the finding was based not on direct numbers from companies, but on surveys by industry analysts. Under the compromise, cable companies will have two months to submit the numbers of customers and size of their markets, which the agency could use next year to determine whether the industry had grown too large.AdvertisementMr. Martin had also proposed to make it less expensive for independent programmers to have access to cable channels, and to set up a new complaint procedure that would impose arbitration to resolve disputes between the cable operators and programmers like the NFL Network and the Hallmark Channel. But as it became clear  this morning that he did not have the support that he anticipated, he abandoned the complaint procedure.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A third proposal, which would make it less expensive for independent programmers to lease access to channels, is expected to be approved as part of the compromise package, officials said. But it will not go into effect immediately, as originally planned.Mr. Martin said he thought earlier this month that he had the support of the commission’s two Democrats for the proposals, including a finding that the industry had become so dominant that the agency had expanded jurisdiction to impose new rules. That would have given him a slim majority. Mr. Martin’s two fellow Republicans on the commission had in varying degrees publicly questioned some of the proposals, and they were expected to support the industry in opposition to them.But the agency faced a lobbying barrage in recent days by industry executives and their executives, who complained to lawmakers and senior White House officials that Mr. Martin had overreached. And one of the Democrats, Jonathan S. Adelstein, who is up for renomination next year, began to express reservations about the proposals, even though consumer groups insisted that he had assured them of his support.As part of the lobbying effort, top cable executives and lobbyists met last week with senior White House officials, including Joshua B. Bolten, the chief of staff; Allan B. Hubbard, the president’s top economic adviser; and  Joel D. Kaplan, the deputy chief of staff and a longtime friend of Mr. Martin’s, two lobbyists involved in those meetings said today.A White House spokesman did not return a call seeking comment about the meetings, or about whether any officials had contacted anyone at the commission.Republicans in the House and Senate sent letters to Mr. Martin echoing the industry’s concerns about the cable proposals, as did senior cable television and network executives.The proposal that drew the most fire was a finding that the industry had become so dominant that the agency should have expanded powers to impose more regulations.The agency had been preparing to invoke this authority under the so-called 70/70 rule of the Cable Communications Act of 1984. Under that provision, the agency may adopt any rules necessary to promote “diversity of information sources” once the commission concludes that cable television is available to at least 70 percent of American households, and at least 70 percent of those households actually subscribe to a cable service.AdvertisementOfficials and consumer groups said that the 70/70 cable television finding would provide the legal basis for the commission to adopt rules in the coming weeks and months aimed at increasing programming and reducing rates for consumers. They include a cap that would prevent the nation’s largest cable company, Comcast, from growing.In a recent interview, Mr. Adelstein,  a commission member since 2002, said he felt that Mr. Martin was rushing a series of measures through the commission to give him political cover for his proposal to loosen other rules, in particular relaxing the rule that has prevented a media company from owning a newspaper and a broadcast or television station in the same market. Mr. Adelstein has criticized the proposed change of the newspaper-broadcast cross- ownership rule, which is set to be decided by the commission next month.“There is a manic attempt to finish an aggressive number of controversial decisions on short notice,” Mr. Adelstein said on Sunday. “Longstanding procedures were short-circuited on issues that deserve more thoughtfulness. The reason for the push is to provide quick cover for the media consolidation agenda.”In the face of a deeply divided commission, Mr. Martin also withdrew a proposal to encourage more minority ownership of radio and television stations.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »