AdvertisementSupported byBy Alexander BurnsATLANTA — Their first debate was polite and predictable. The second, not so much.Jon Ossoff and Karen Handel clashed on Thursday in their second debate for the vacant seat in Georgia’s Sixth Congressional District ahead of the June 20 special election. After sparring lightly in their first encounter on Tuesday, Mr. Ossoff, a Democrat, and Ms. Handel, a Republican, attacked each other in sharper and more personal terms.Here’s our speed-read version:The morning debate took place before James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, appeared in front of Congress on Thursday, but after he issued his prepared testimony – putting Ms. Handel, who has appeared with President Trump, in the delicate position of responding.Her approach was mainly to reiterate her support for an independent investigation, and to declare that she was “not an extension of the White House.” But Ms. Handel also declined to offer unconditional support for the president: She said it was currently unclear if Mr. Trump tried to obstruct an investigation, and declined to rule out impeachment proceedings if he did.“I will look at the facts and let the facts take us to where the appropriate action should be,” she said.Mr. Ossoff, who is a darling of Democratic donors and activists, has taken steps throughout the race to separate himself from the national party. He drew stark policy distinctions with the left on Thursday, even as he seeks a strong turnout from the Democratic base.Mr. Ossoff said unambiguously that he would not join other Democrats in voting to raise taxes, even on the wealthy (“I don’t support any increase in income tax rates”), and that he did not support pushing for a single-payer health care system, an increasingly central preoccupation of the Democratic base.“I think we need a lot less ideology around health care,” Mr. Ossoff said, adding: “I don’t think a plan like that has any hope of passing this Congress.”The dominant issues in this debate, as in the last one, were health care and funding for Planned Parenthood, and once again Mr. Ossoff assailed Ms. Handel for her past role at the Susan G. Komen foundation, a breast cancer advocacy organization. Ms. Handel, he said, “resigned in disgrace” after seeking to end the organization’s relationship with Planned Parenthood. And Mr. Ossoff quoted Ms. Handel, who abruptly left the group over the funding controversy, as having taken credit for confronting Planned Parenthood.Ms. Handel has struggled to rebut Mr. Ossoff’s criticism on this issue throughout the race, and struggled again on Thursday. She played down her role in the Komen controversy and said she favored funding community health centers instead of Planned Parenthood. Mr. Ossoff, she said with apparent exasperation, was “really stuck on this issue.”Ms. Handel and Mr. Ossoff disagreed sharply on the Paris climate accord, with Ms. Handel supporting Mr. Trump’s decision to withdraw and Mr. Ossoff opposing it. But Ms. Handel repeatedly declined to respond to Mr. Ossoff’s persistent demand that she take a position on whether climate change is a serious phenomenon driven by human activity.“Clearly, there have been changes in the climate,” Ms. Handel said. “I’m not a scientist, so I read all that and take it in.”Pressed by Mr. Ossoff to answer the question, Ms. Handel fired back with a question of her own, asking Mr. Ossoff if he wanted to put American businesses at a disadvantage. Mr. Ossoff replied in the negative.Ms. Handel spent most of the debate on defense, with Mr. Ossoff peppering her with criticism of her record and suggesting she lacked familiarity with policy. Unlike in their last debate, Ms. Handel openly vented frustration with her opponent — and perhaps with the state of a race in which she was perceived to have an early edge.“With all due respect, do not interrupt me,” Ms. Handel shot back, when Mr. Ossoff pressed her on the Komen issue. She complained to the moderator: “You’ve allowed him to have the last word every single time.”And Ms. Handel accused Mr. Ossoff of seeking to “mislead and lie to the voters,” and labeled him in her closing statement as “the deceptive, fake Jon Ossoff.”Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the Morning Briefing newsletter.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS