AdvertisementBy DAVID W. DUNLAPNOV. 11, 2016
Times Insider shares historical insights from The New York Times.Election stories usually have the shelf life of bananas: a couple of days, maybe. A week, if you’re lucky.So it is amazing to come across a post-mortem report filed in November 1964 by the Times correspondent Donald Janson that has held up for more than a half century.“Rightists Buoyed by the Election; Open New Drives,” the multilayered headline declared. “They See 26 Million Votes for Goldwater as Proof of Their Rising Power / Gain Conceded by Foes / Ultraconservatives Bidding for Recruits — Plan Fight for Control of G.O.P.”Mr. Janson’s article was given prominent play on the front page of Nov. 23, 1964, though his reporting ran against the grain of what The Times was otherwise telling its readers.AdvertisementConventional wisdom held that President Lyndon B. Johnson’s landslide victory over Senator Barry Goldwater a few weeks earlier meant that America had embraced a liberal agenda and repudiated the conservatism embodied by Mr. Goldwater.Advertisement“He has wrecked his party for a long time to come,” wrote James Reston, the dean of Times columnists and a master of flyover assessments of the national mood. “He ran so far behind the very progressives he scorned in his own party that he now faces a G.O.P. revolt.”The Times hailed the election result (probably in the voice of John B. Oakes, the editorial page editor): “The American people have given emphatic notice that they want to move forward constructively along the road of international understanding and domestic progress.“Rejected is the thesis that the challenges of an era of dynamic, relentless change in domestic and foreign affairs can be met by dismantling the federal government or by shaking a nuclear fist at the rest of the world,” the editorial continued.That was not what Mr. Janson’s reporting disclosed, however.“After a brief period of post-election mourning,” his article began, “the extreme right wing of the American political spectrum has assessed its position and found cause for elation.”“Despite the crushing defeat suffered by the candidate they labored for, Senator Barry Goldwater, ultraconservative groups are claiming a ‘thrilling’ victory.”“The apparent paradox is easily explained. Never before has a candidate favored by the far right polled more than a tiny fraction of the 26 million votes Mr. Goldwater received.”“A coast-to-coast survey by The New York Times shows that most spokesmen for the far right feel the entire Goldwater vote reflects agreement with their views.”“They believe the 26 million figure represents a base for recruits to such causes as getting the United States out of the United Nations and the federal government out of any undertaking that local units of government could handle.”“Its members feel they have gained a grip on Republican party machinery, and they have no intention of relaxing it.”Jonathan Mahler, a current domestic correspondent, was struck by the parallels. He and Julie Turkewitz wrote the Nov. 6 article, “Donald Trump’s Extremist Supporters Feel Like Winners Either Way.”“As it was then — more than a half-century ago — so it seems to be now, with Trump’s fringe supporters saying that he has effectively ‘mainstreamed’ their views,” Mr. Mahler said. “All that has changed, really, are the terms of art: In 1964, they were the ‘far right.’ Today, we call them ‘white nationalists’ or ‘the alt-right.’ ”Why did Mr. Janson get it right, when so many got it wrong?A clue came from Tom Stites, a former night national editor of The Times, who cut his teeth at The Kansas City Star when Mr. Janson was The Times’s Kansas City bureau chief.Advertisement“A lesson he offered me then was that when you’re a national correspondent it’s important to drive to as many stories as possible, rather than fly,” Mr. Stites said. “Driving ensures that you’ll get to know your territory and its people.”Mr. Janson was born in Prairieville, Mich. He earned a bachelor’s degree in journalism from the University of Missouri, served in the Navy, then earned a master’s degree from the University of Minnesota in 1948. While working for The Milwaukee Journal, he was awarded a Nieman fellowship at Harvard, in the class of 1953.Two years later, he joined The New York Times. Over a 34-year career, he was a metro reporter in New York; the chief of the foreign copy desk in New York; a national correspondent; the chief of the Chicago, Kansas City and Des Moines bureaus; the Philadelphia correspondent; and a reporter based in New Jersey. He died in 2009.“Don Janson’s 1964 story laid out the story line for Tom Edsall’s superb ‘The New Politics of Inequality,’ which was published two decades later,” Mr. Stites said. “Both were great achievements, but Janson was truly prescient.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »