
NOV. 8, 2016

Times reporters provided real-time analysis of Donald J. Trump’s stunning upset in the presidential election on Tuesday. Here are the highlights of the day, and sign up for our email updates.
Good evening, everyone! Election night is finally upon us, and we’re excited for one more big chat.We’ve got our usual team in place live from The New  York Times newsroom, and exit polls are starting to trickle out.Well, Alan, here’s hoping it’s one more big chat. I still remember being in Florida in December of 2000.Let’s not get ahead of ourselves! Speaking of Florida, polls close there at 7 p.m. Eastern time. All eyes are on that state.Polls in Georgia, part of Indiana, the western half of Kentucky, New Hampshire, South Carolina, Vermont and Virginia all close at that time, too.An hour-by-hour look at when states finish voting.The New York TimesThat represents 64 electoral votes right there.Our first batch of exit polls shows some positive signs for Hillary Clinton nationally.More than half of  voters said that Clinton has the temperament to serve effectively as president. Only about a third said Donald J. Trump does.Clinton also gets higher marks when it comes to honesty.But it’s still very early. Polls on the West Coast don’t close for more than five hours. We have a long night ahead.Good evening, guys.Alan, I’ll be Adam’s spokeswoman for the time being.It’s surreal that this is our final chat of the election.Because both Trump and Clinton are viewed negatively by a majority of Americans, as one poll after another has shown, I’m not sure how much we learn from discrete subsets about issues like temperament or honesty.Demographics might end up being the bigger story, Maggie, and they are looking favorable to Clinton right now.My eye is going to be on Florida, just as it always is in an open-seat presidential race.Without Florida, Trump has no path.The new exit polls that just came out show turnout in Florida is running high among nonwhite and urban voters.Another state to keep our eyes on tonight, Alan, is Michigan.There was clearly movement there that Democrats were seeing.Trump’s campaign has said privately that they think they may snatch a win there.Hey, Alan. I have to say one thing: I have learned not to put too much faith in the first wave of exit polls. I can remember doing some serious rewriting on deadline after the second wave came in.They sent President Obama into Michigan over the weekend, right? There’s no early voting there, which is why you’d want him there at the end of the campaign.What I’m struck by from these early polls — I guess we shouldn’t be shocked — is just how much Americans do not seem to like these two candidates. And, relatively, how much they like Obama.Adam, your point about Obama being popular is dead on. He became more popular amid this toxic race.Obama was in Michigan the last day of campaigning, on Monday.This is just in from our colleague Amy Chozick, our Clinton beat reporter. Clinton is headed to the Peninsula hotel in New York right now to watch the results come in.She’s planning to stay in the penthouse suite there if she wins tonight.Alan, the thing I’m going to be watching closer than anything else is whether the final results confirm what some people were seeing early on: That there is a big increase in the Latino vote. If that happens, and if Clinton wins, that is going to be a big political legacy of this election.Hey, everyone! It’s amazing that this is finally about to be over. Maggie, I agree about the importance of Florida. The good news is that we might know a lot there pretty quickly: They could have half of the vote counted by 8 p.m., when the polls close statewide.Nate, you are saying that we could end up being done and out the door at 8 p.m.!I doubt that they’ll be able to project the results of the state at that point. But I do think we’ll have a very good idea about whether there is a favorite to win the state, and therefore the election.Yeah, in all seriousness, if it’s a one-point or a two-point race, we tend to be really careful in making any calls until a good number of the votes are in.We won’t be making any calls with our live model: It generally takes a 99.9 percent certainty of victory before the networks or The Associated Press make a projection. But we’ll know whether a candidate is likely to win long before it’s 99 percent sure.The polls are closing in the eastern part of Kentucky and most of Indiana, so we might start to get some results trickling in very soon. Obviously, Trump is a big favorite in both states. But it will be interesting to see whether he can post some big gains in white, rural areas. It might offer some clues about how similar areas in other states might vote.Nate, were you watching Votecastr today? That is the service that had, at least in theory, real-time projections of how the vote was going in some key states. For those who missed it, Nate had a very interesting piece today raising questions about this very trailblazing effort. How did they do? In a first, results will be estimated before the polls close. It’s hard for even pros to do, and very easy for readers to get the wrong impression.The New York TimesI think they had some technical difficulties, but I don’t think they ever put out any outrageous results. We’ll find out how close they were when we get actual results.I’m also interested in what kind of traffic they got. On Election Day, I am constantly asked, “What’s happening? Who is winning?” I’m like, “Um, you know, people are voting.”While we wait for more exit polls and results, it’s a good time to point out some of the great stories that we’ve had today.One that stood out is the surge in visitors to the grave sites of female suffragists. Our colleague Sarah Maslin Nir has some really powerful video of people visiting Susan B. Anthony’s grave today. Since dawn the people have poured in to visit suffragist Susan B Anthony’s grave and thank her. It’s dark now,and it’s nowhere near stopping https://t.co/5McDEszKnc— Sarah Maslin Nir on Twitter (sarahmaslinnir)We’re now starting to get some absentee vote results from rural Kentucky, and they show Trump up by a 78 to 20 percent lead. That might seem like a huge number, but it’s not astonishing: These are some of the most reliable Republicans in the country.Needless to say, there has been a lot of attention paid to the Hispanic turnout. The exit polls from Florida and Nevada shed some light on how that group is likely to vote.Latino voters in those states expressed broadly positive views of Clinton and President Obama. Trump gets negative marks from about 70 percent of these voters.It looks like Trump is off to an early lead in New Hampshire, a state that is close to his heart. He won his first primary there. Extremely early totals also show him up a bit in Indiana, the home state of Gov. Mike Pence. But again, extremely early.Indiana going to Trump would not be a surprise. New Hampshire was really fought.Maggie, where is Trump right now? Are they hunkered down in the Tower?Alan, they’re at Trump Tower in Manhattan.Any word on the mood there? Kellyanne Conway, Trump’s campaign manager, was just on television and did not appear to be in the best of spirits.The mood this morning was my favorite euphemism: “cautiously optimistic.”Realistically, most of his advisers know that Trump is facing an uphill battle. I did just get a message from one adviser saying, “Not looking great.”Which tells you the mood.Trump did not seem overconfident today in some of the interviews that I heard. There was a lot of talk about rigged votes and whether he would concede if he loses.I did not get the sense he was going to go gently into that good night.The lawsuit filed in Nevada seemed to be a clear signal that they are ready to fight.For those who are just catching up, the Trump campaign filed a lawsuit in Nevada because some polling places stayed open late to let people who were in line vote.Voting issues — long lines, malfunctioning machines and more — were reported nationwide: Voting problems amounted to malfunctioning machines, long lines and mix-ups over voter ID laws here and there, but no major disruptions anywhere so far.The New York TimesThe judge in Clark County did not appear to be sympathetic.Alan, I’m not sure how much Trump’s decision here was to fight as it was to de-legitimize the ultimate outcome.I’ve now heard from several people inside the Trump orbit whose moods have dipped.One thing I’ve learned this year: Never try to predict what Trump will do.Regarding Indiana, I’m not particularly interested in the results of the presidential race there, but the Senate race — where Evan Bayh, a former Democratic senator, is trying to come back — is pretty fascinating.Republicans and Democrats are battling fiercely for control of the Senate. Here are 10 pivotal races that we’re watching.The New York TimesWe are in New York City tonight, and it was interesting today to see all of these voting sites with huge lines. That is the definition of a symbolic vote — New York State is, of course, not in play. But if Trump loses by a lot here, in the city he calls home, that is certainly worthy of note.Adam, I agree about New York’s margin.There was a lot of anecdotal evidence of heavy turnout in Manhattan.Adam, two Twitter posts went viral today about Trump voting at his polling place. In one, he was booed lustily outside. In the other, he was openly laughed at by people waiting in line to vote. “You’re gonna lose!” one man yelled at him.I just got some interesting stats from Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights, the group that runs the national election protection hotline.They’ve received more than 30,000 calls today.Interestingly,  they said they are  seeing voter suppression in the form of misinformation throughout Florida.Apparently people are telling some voters that they have to be registered with a certain party to vote at certain polling locations.I’ll tell you something else I’ll be looking at: The Comey impact. The Clinton camp was looking to expand the map this time — Arizona, Georgia and super-long-shot Texas. If she falls short there, you have to wonder if the past week of dealing with the F.B.I. announcement on email was why.That’s a good point. It’s been hard to tell from the polling how much that damaged her.It was all too compressed timewise. But also, the idea that she was put on the defensive when she could have been on the offensive in the final week is a big deal.We’re about to get our first wave of poll closings at 7 p.m. It’ll be interesting to see whether there’s an early call in Virginia for Clinton.Hey, guys, it’s 7 p.m. Do you know where your voters are?Nate, do the quick calls that we often got during the primaries tend to take longer in the general because of more voters?While we haven’t called anything, CNN projects Trump wins Kentucky and Indiana.Not a shock on either. For readers out there, just to stress, this is a CNN projection, not a New York Times projection.And neither is a surprise; they are both Republican-leaning states in presidential years.O.K., The New York Times has called Kentucky and Indiana for Trump and Vermont for Clinton. Folks, I’ve spent the past few hours putting together a story for tomorrow on our fractured country. I have news to report: We are a fractured country.You’ve discussed some of the 10,000-foot findings tonight, from the polls, but it is fascinating (and disheartening) to hear and see examples of it up close.In talking to voters today, our crack team of reporters around the country found a nation at the end of its rope — paranoid and distrustful. Two countries, really, hostile and disenchanted with each other.I am just old enough to remember covering the 2000 election, which gave us the idea of “red vs. blue America” — really a fluke of election map color coding by television networks. The country seemed divided then, even coming off of a huge economic expansion.But man, oh man, does it seem worse now.Nick, last October or November, NBC reported a striking statistic from its polling, which was that of eight candidates they polled — two Democrats and six Republicans — almost all were viewed negatively by the electorate.It was a first in their polling, they said at the time.And it really portended what was to come.I did a story in 2014 about how “40 is the new 50,” meaning that a number of people running in the midterm elections that year had negative favorability ratings and got elected in spite of it.It was another portent of this cycle, which has been just toxic.The electorate is angry and distrustful of a number of institutions.Whoever goes into the White House will face a daunting situation.It’s looking neck and neck in Virginia, which would be a big one for Trump to carry.If that’s right on Virginia, that would be huge — given the recent shift of the state and who the VEEP is.So far, the early results are comporting with expectations: Trump is running ahead of Mitt Romney in white, rural areas, whether in Kentucky and Indiana or northern Florida. But he’s not running further ahead of what we expected based on the polls.Alan, most of the vote in Virginia is from Chesterfield County — a conservative suburb outside Richmond. Clinton’s narrowly ahead there, which would be extremely impressive if it held (the count is still very early).Polls are closing shortly in North Carolina, Ohio and West Virginia.The early vote is coming in fast in Florida, and, I hate to keep saying it, but these are basically the numbers we expected. Clinton is posting impressive margins in Orlando and Jacksonville. Trump will need a solid Election Day.We have Ashley Parker at the New York Hilton Midtown, where his party is.I haven’t heard from her in a bit, but based on Twitter, there seems to be a Trump-shaped cake.I’m surprised he’s not holding it at Trump Tower.Where it all began.As well as two of the signature red “Make America Great Again” hats.The Times called West Virginia for Trump. No shock.Trump has been good to the miners.Is it possible that Trump didn’t want to do the event at Trump Tower because if he loses, he doesn’t want a loss delivered there? B.F.T.B. (bad for the brand).The Times just called Rob Portman (a Republican) re-elected in Ohio. Democrats once had high hopes there, but that faded.I just got a little dispatch from our colleague Sheryl Gay Stolberg, who has been in Pennsylvania all day.In low-income, African-American communities in Philadelphia, she said that people were coming to the polls in a steady stream to vote for Clinton.They weren’t all enthusiastic about her, she reports, but a fierce desire to keep Mr. Trump out of office united them.
Sheryl also stopped by the local Republican headquarters, which she described “perhaps the loneliest place in Philadelphia.”That Clinton won only about 20 percent of the vote in the heart of eastern Kentucky and western Virginia coal country is a striking change from when Bill Clinton dominated those areas in 1992 and 1996.Election results from the Kentucky caucus, part of the 2016 presidential campaign.The New York TimesTed Strickland just put out a statement saying that he has conceded to Rob Portman in the Ohio Senate race.Adam, to your question, I do think that may be part of the logic on the hotel choice by Trump. The reason, one aide told me, was that Trump is superstitious.Rand Paul has also won in Kentucky, retaining his seat.No call so far for Marco Rubio in Florida, but that remains one of the most interesting Senate races in the country.After he dropped out of the presidential race, he said he was done with politics, but then he changed his mind.MSNBC just called South Carolina for Trump. We have not yet called it.The urban-rural split that’s emerging so far is very striking: Trump is running well ahead of Romney for voters in basically every non-metropolitan county. Clinton is running ahead of Obama in metropolitan areas.Nate, any indications on Hispanic or African-American turnout so far compared with 2012?I don’t think we’ve learned much so far, Alan. We won’t know until we start getting some completed vote counts. That said, the early vote indicated that Hispanic turnout was way up and black turnout was a little down. The former is all but locked in, the latter could change on Election Day.Nate, was black turnout down in multiple places or primarily in North Carolina?Lots of polls close at 8 p.m., and 292 electoral votes are at stake. Buckle up.Here’s our handy guide to all the poll closing times.    What Time Will the Polls Close? (And When Will We Know Who Won?)  An hour-by-hour look at when states finish voting.   The New York Times    An hour-by-hour look at when states finish voting.The New York TimesSo, I promised we’d know a lot about Florida by 8 p.m., and Clinton is up by three points right now with about 6.5 million votes counted (we’re expecting around 9.5 million). She’s not expected to do quite as well in the early vote as in the Election Day vote, and a lot of the Panhandle is left. But this is enough to make Clinton a slight favorite.Here’s our best guess in Florida right now:Here’s our best guess in Florida right now.  Heads-up: Forecasts may be volatile early in the night. These numbers will become more trustworthy once more votes have been counted. Hello there! These dials will spring to life around 7:15 PM ET. Our best guess is that is on track to win in Florida.The New York TimesFlorida remains too close to call. Our colleague Frances Robles, who is on the ground there, points out that Duval County, home to the city of Jacksonville, is deadlocked.She says that this is particularly bad for Trump because has to take the northern Florida counties in big numbers to offset those huge numbers in south Florida.I have to say that I don’t think that’s quite how this will play out. Trump isn’t hitting traditional Republican targets in Duval, but he’s making up for it with big wins in places like Daytona Beach.The New York Times just called the Senate for Rubio in Florida. Let the 2020 talk begin.Mr. Rubio jumped back into the race for his Senate seat after withdrawing from the presidential contest.The New York TimesWell, Alan, I think we have to get through tonight first. This is a close race in Florida, where I think Clinton was thought to have a bit of a larger edge than this.Trump is doing what he hoped to do among rural white voters in the South. I have to say that I didn’t think there was much room to outdo Romney there, but he’s really making big inroads in rural Virginia and Florida.This year, Democrats have an advantage of just 88,000 early and absentee votes, suggesting an even closer race.Florida, Florida, FloridaWe’re getting some reporting from Ashley Parker, our Trump reporter who is at his election party at the Hilton.Ashley says that the crowd at Trump’s election night party is thin, but starting to slowly fill in in front of the stage.Trump’s supporters are clad in dark suits, with the occasional “Make America Great Again” cap gliding through the crowd, she reports.We don’t have much yet from Pennsylvania or Michigan, but I think it’s fair to say that we might not know the results for a long time. Florida and North Carolina won’t be called anytime soon.Exit polls are suggesting that Ohio, which also closed before 8 p.m., could be closer than expected because of a rush of late-deciding voters fleeing Trump.He was looking solid there in a lot of late polls.One point here: Trump pretty much has to win Florida to get to the White House. But winning Florida alone isn’t enough.That’s true Adam, but the results so far indicate that Trump is doing very well among white rural voters. Those voters are plentiful in the Northern states like Pennsylvania and Michigan.And Clinton was pretty confident of winning Pennsylvania and Michigan.The Times: Trump wins South Carolina and Alabama.The Times has called Evan Bayh, the Democrat, losing to Todd Young in Indiana’s Senate race.Bayh is a former senator and was seen as an opportunity to claim an open Senate seat that had been held by a Republican.Democrats had viewed Mr. Bayh’s candidacy as a prime opportunity to claim an open Senate seat that had been held by a Republican.The New York TimesIn Florida, one interesting note from the exit polls is that Trump is leading with white voters who have college degrees.Generally he has struggled with highly educated voters nationally.This is going to be a late night, folks. Clinton is doing better in metropolitan areas than Obama had done, but not vastly better. Trump, on the other hand, is making very big gains in rural America.Nate, would you say he’s outperforming his polling?I don’t think that’s clear yet, Alan. But I think it’s quite possible.One note on Virginia: David Leonhardt points out, in a column posted now, that the early evening vote tends to be from the traditionally Republican parts of Virginia.  Gotta wait. http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/opinion/election-night-2016/dont-be-fooled-by-virginiaThe Times calls Rhode Island for Clinton.Noteworthy tweet from Jeb Bush Jr.:Ok so what’s the Over/Under for The Donald saying or announcing Trump Tv durning his speech tonight? #ElectionDay #Election2016— Jeb Bush, Jr. on Twitter (jebbushjr)I think it’s worth pointing out that Gary Johnson is currently pulling 2.2 percent of the vote in Florida, which in a close race could be the difference.Hey, Nate, at this point, what states would you expect to go really late? Florida? Virginia? Ohio? North Carolina?As I recall, in 2008, it was pretty clear by 9 p.m. that Obama was going to win, and we called it officially around 11 p.m. There were no seesawers.The Upshot forecast currently gives Clinton a 74 percent chance of winning, with Trump at 26 percent. The gap has been narrowing. Heads-up: Forecasts may be volatile early in the night. These numbers will become more trustworthy once more votes have been counted. Hello there! These dials will spring to life around 7:15 PM. Our best guess right now is that is on track to win.The New York TimesIt’s clear that this isn’t going to be decided for quite some time. The counts in Michigan and Pennsylvania are usually very slow, and I think it is clear that Clinton will not win either by the sort of wide margins necessary to generate an early call. North Carolina and Florida will be extremely close, even if Clinton squeaks out a win.Even if Clinton manages to take this election, I think it will be a real wake-up call to the Democratic Party about how dependent they’ve been on the support of white working-class voters who simply aren’t at the heart of the party’s message.A big wave of polls are closing momentarily. New York, Minnesota, the western half of South Dakota, Nebraska, the southwestern corner of North Dakota, the northwestern corner of Michigan, Colorado, Louisiana, New Mexico, Texas, Arizona, Wisconsin and Wyoming.I spoke to some Democrats before the election who were confident of her winning. They said that you need those voters to govern but not necessarily to win; the unstated calculus is the increasing numbers of Latino and African-American voters. The results so far suggests that is not necessarily true.That those Democrats believe that is at the heart of their problem. White working-class voters made up one in three of Obama’s voters in 2012.The Times reports that Clinton carries New York (shocker).For the record, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York was just re-elected.Mr. Schumer, Democrat of New York, is poised to take over as his party’s Senate leader.The New York TimesTammy Duckworth, a Democrat, just won the Senate race in Illinois.Ms. Duckworth’s victory puts both Senate seats in Illinois in the control of Democrats.The New York TimesThe Times calls Texas for Trump. There was some (I thought far-fetched) speculation that this would be the year that Texas goes Democratic in presidential races.Clinton has an eight-point lead in the early vote in Jefferson County, Colo., a key suburban county around Denver. So it does appear that she’s still favored there — despite her challenge elsewhere.Welcome back, Maggie.Has the mood in Trumpworld brightened in the last hour, as I would imagine?Alan, indeed. They are feeling quite buoyant right now.One aide just told me to “start saying it: ‘President Trump.’”Nate, do you see a way in which Clinton can overcome that vote deficit?In Florida, Maggie? Well, I think there would have to be many more votes in South Florida than we think are out there.Just to update everyone on where we stand, Trump currently has 130 electoral votes to Clinton’s 97.Obviously it’s still early.How much of this closer-than-expected night is because of the Comey announcement? I’m guessing that’s a question many Democrats are asking.Also, our Upshot forecast now has Clinton’s chances of winning the presidency at 59 percent. That’s down from 85 percent.Trump’s huge margins among white working-class voters have spread into the Upper Midwest — the region of the country where Democrats depend most on their support. It gives Trump a very real chance in Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin.The early results in Wisconsin may not be representative, but they are very good for Trump.The same thing is true in Michigan.In Michigan, The Detroit Free Press has called the state for Clinton. Note to readers: This is not a call by The New York Times.I don’t buy that, Nick. The early results there are not good for Clinton.It seems like his strategy of focusing almost entirely on white voters is working better than many strategists expected.Nate, can you refresh everyone’s memory on Clinton’s path if she loses Florida, North Carolina and Ohio? What are her must-wins in that case?Let’s assume she loses Arizona and Iowa, as well. If that’s true, then she would need Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan and either New Hampshire or Nevada.Explore the paths to victory available for the presidential candidates.The New York TimesAshley Parker, our reporter in at the Trump party in Manhattan, says that the mood there brightened around 9 p.m.She says the ranks of Trump supporters thickened and their energy has improved. Supporters are gazing up at the two large television screens broadcasting Fox News, and are cheering each new state announced for Trump.Trump is now favored in our forecast.How about that.CNN is reporting that the Republicans have officially locked up control of the House of Representatives.Alan, that’s less of a surprise than almost anything else tonight.A few things to consider here, as we go along.This race is extremely close right now, obviously.If Trump wins, it will be the upset of the last 50 years.Some say it would be bigger than the Cubs winning the World Series.If Clinton wins, it will be an eked-out victory, meaning that Trump will remain on the scene for potentially a long time.Many people are saying, Alan.But I think it’s going to be hard to grasp how fractured this country is going to be.One way to think about this election: Less-educated white voters just decided to block vote like a minority group. They represent 40 percent of the electorate, so that’s enough.That’s well put, Nate.Fox News is now projecting that Virginia will go for Clinton.Some relief there for Clinton supporters, if it holds up. But she has a long way to go to the White House.Closing momentarily are Iowa, most of Idaho, Utah, Nevada and Montana.There is obviously a huge disconnect between different parts of the country — it is a gap of race, of class, of opportunity and of power.The dizzying shift tonight — when Clinton was so heavily favored going in and now is favored to lose — hints that the gap is not merely demographic, but informational.One other point: Trump has made clear that he is ready to call the race “rigged” depending on the outcome.If she wins and remains this close, Trump seems unlikely to cede defeat.It’s worth noting that we still have Clinton as a pretty clear favorite to win the popular vote.Trump is up by only 1.9 points in the popular vote right now, and that’s without anything from the West Coast or many urban centers out East.So one of two things — or both — has happened in this race.Fox is reporting that Richard Burr, the North Carolina Republican, will beat Deborah Ross in their Senate race.Alan, if Burr beats Ross, then Trump should win North Carolina.Here’s how we see it right now: Clinton is a pretty clear favorite in Nevada, Colorado and Virginia. She’s probably a favorite in Maine, as well.
Then Clinton would need all of Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. All three are true toss-ups.Back to the two things that happened.The modeling by the Clinton team, as well as a number of public polls, was way off.And while Trump’s campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, often was mocked for talking about a “hidden Trump vote,” at the moment, there seems to be signs of that.At this rate, Wednesday could be a very ugly day for the financial markets. Dow Jones Industrial Average futures plunged by as much as 600 points.Something to watch: Trump is up just .5 percent in the early vote in Arizona. Democrats generally do better on Election Day. Maybe that won’t be true this time, but it’s worth watching.The Times is also calling the North Carolina Senate race for Burr.Senator Burr, a Republican, held off a challenge from Deborah Ross, a Democratic former state director of the American Civil Liberties Union.The New York TimesYes, just one of the three.Nate, under that scenario, would Trump need only to win Michigan or Pennsylvania or Wisconsin?So, at this point, Trump has an easier road to the White House than Clinton does.Absolutely.Folks, I am just struck by all the machinery of politics in which Clinton appeared to have an advantage in this election. She had more money, a big “super PAC.” Way more advertising. A sophisticated data operation built on the successful experience of the Obama campaign. And none of those things seem to have made the difference.Even if she does win, Trump will have gone incredibly far without any of them.Plus a huge advantage of endorsements — including from every major newspaper’s editorial board in the country (that and 25 cents …).Trump is going to owe no one a thing, if he wins.And he will be acutely aware of it.There are fewer than 10 people who endorsed him and stayed with him unequivocally.There’s a minor talk-radio personality who got a lot of mockery for tweeting recently that Trump’s “groundgame is in our hearts.”It turns out he was on to something.Michael Moore, the liberal moviemaker who hails from Michigan, has been warning about this for months.CNN projects Trump takes Ohio.Earlier tonight I moderated a Times panel that included Peter Wehner, the former Bush speechwriter.He was an early critic of Trump, and he was vocal that he wanted to see Trump dealt a punishing blow in the race.Without that, he said, Trump would remain on the stage with tens of millions of people having backed him.What we are seeing now is either a Trump win or Trump in near-perpetuity.Just another note on the markets: We’re seeing drop in the dollar, a big drop in the value of the peso and a rally in U.S. Treasury bonds — all signs of jittery investors.Stocks in Tokyo, Hong Kong and other major markets were down as much as 2 percent, and Wall Street futures indicated a looming sell-off of about 2.5 percent.The New York TimesFox just called Colorado for Clinton.Clinton has not won a state yet that she was not expected to win, right? As opposed to Trump.Right.For what it’s worth, nobody has called Florida yet.Right. Politico just called Virginia for Clinton.Maggie, when this campaign was getting started, before Trump got in, you and I wrote a piece about how much the Democrats had riding on Clinton. We wrote about how the apparent dominance of Democrats at the electoral college level had concealed extraordinary weaknesses in Congress and in state and local government, where Republicans hold sway.And we noted that the Democrats had no backup plan, no farm team.They bet it all on Clinton.You could have a situation where you have a real Republican sweep tonight: White House, Congress, Senate. I would presume the way things are going, more statehouses as well. Don’t forget the Supreme Court.Right, Nick. Brexit.It feels like we are at a historic turning point not only for our country, but what was once called Western Civilization. In Europe and the United States, we are now seeing a high tide of populist nationalism, rallying disaffected white people who are angry and opposed to the multicultural societies these countries have been becoming.Adam, I think we have to discuss the obvious, but often obscured, truth that elections are about power. Who has it and who will have it.The New York Times has just called Ohio for Trump.There are millions of voters who saw their power and prestige in American culture and politics in decline, and they reacted strongly when they found a candidate who expressed what they were feeling.Trump just spoke briefly with one of our colleagues, and appears to be in a good mood. He did, however, take time to divert from the brief discussion to ask the colleague to relay his deep displeasure with a story that four of us wrote in Monday’s paper about the final days of his campaign.Among other things, he insisted he did not cede his Twitter account.One has to wonder how Bernie Sanders is feeling right now and if he would be faring much differently.Fox calls North Carolina for Trump.Sanders probably could have wrested away some union households.One of the things that was striking to me was that in a recent Ohio poll, Clinton was running well behind how Obama ran with union households in 2012.Union officials privately acknowledge seeing a drop-off that worried them in the last few days among a number of subsets.Our colleague Jason Horowitz is reporting chants of “lock her up” at Trump’s new hotel in Washington.Cheering and calls of Lock Her Up at Trump’s DC hotel as NC is called for Trump https://t.co/awE2pz6fWL— Jason Horowitz on Twitter (jasondhorowitz)The reality here is that we’ve spoken a lot more about race than we have about women and reactions about a female president.Hillary Clinton is not a tabula rasa — people have very hardened, polarized views of her.That having been said, the amount of open misogyny during this campaign has been really striking, from a lot of Trump’s supporters.We are also going to hear a lot about the successes and failures of data and analytics.Florida goes for Trump, according to The Associated Press. This state has not been called by The Times.Politico just called Florida for Trump. I don’t think it is going out on a limb here.An update from Ashley Parker at Trump headquarters: “The crowd erupted as Fox News called North Carolina for Mr. Trump. Someone has passed out red ‘Make America Great Again’ hats, and they bob and dip as supporters jump up and down.”And yes, Adam, that seems like not a stretch.Trump didn’t make any meaningful investment in data.And the Republican National Committee modeling still showed him behind in key states he’s won.The challenge, Maggie, is that it’s hard to tell how much of this is reaction to Mrs. Clinton — because we both know there is a lot of resentment/dislike of her — and how much of it is the reluctance of some voters to support a woman. I just do not know. Mrs. Clinton is not the best model to test this question.Now, again, that problem would not have existed had the email server never existed.No shock: CNN gives California and Hawaii to Clinton.But Comey also did something that was at odds with agency practice.John McCain, the 2008 Republican nominee, just retained his Senate seat in Arizona.Mr. McCain was buoyed by a deep campaign war chest and by help from the Republican establishment.The New York TimesSo, Nick, would you argue that the country is not ready to elect a woman for president (or at least is resistant to)?Definitely the latter.The Times calls Kamala Harris in the Senate race in California; she is replacing Barbara Boxer. Again, not a huge surprise.Adam, I agree with Nick’s earlier point about the invective that’s been used.I do remember some of the language against President George W. Bush in the 2004 re-election getting hot.The Times has called Virginia for Clinton, and North Carolina for Trump.Every couple of election cycles seems to bring a new collapse of some widely cited theory or rule of thumb. This time, it was the Democrats’ supposed inherent advantage in the Electoral College.And the demographic advantage (which is related).One point to make here: Many of the Trump people are now saying they knew all along he would win. That’s just not true. As we reported out the story on his final campaign week, they knew they got lucky with Comey. Even earlier this evening most of them thought he would lose.Nate, there’s a ton of interest on social media about The Upshot model. Can you give a basic explanation of how we come to that 95 percent number favoring Trump and why the big swing from earlier?Before I answer that, let me start by saying that Clinton is going to get a massive margin out of California, which will make it likely that she wins the popular vote.I believe that the new conventional wisdom, if Clinton wins the popular vote but loses the presidency, will to be about the politics of nullification: That continued Republican political success in national politics depends in large part on constitutional structures or political decisions that favor them.Maggie, I was going to ask you, there was no grand plan here by the Trump campaign? My sense is they talked about the hidden white vote, but didn’t really believe it.No, Adam, most of them did not.The other point to make here: Yes, Comey appears to have done Clinton real damage.In terms of our model, it’s not very complicated: In Wisconsin and Michigan, Clinton is losing. There’s a mix of both Republican and Democratic vote remaining: There’s no obvious path to a comeback, even if it’s possible. In Pennsylvania, we think there’s more Republican vote left than Democratic vote. She needs to win all three states, and, honestly, she might not win any of them.Maggie, what do you think the response from the “Never Trump” Republican coalition will be if he wins? Will they seek forgiveness or go their own way?And Adam, to your question — while Trump certainly struck a nerve within the party, the degree to which his team did not expect a win suggests a level of isolation from the country, as well.But this is a failure of modeling, polling, punditry and a number of other things.Makes you wonder, if he wins, how he is going to organize a Trump White House.One thing: If the night keeps going this way, it’s good news for the Alec Baldwin “Saturday Night Live” fans, at least for the next four years.Alan, Trump never struck me as a particularly forgiving kind of guy. The “Never Trump” Republican coalition might have a cold four years, if he wins.Folks, one difficult question is what line Democrats now take on the Supreme Court vacancy.You can imagine the argument forming for a four-year blockade.But that’s a tough line to hold.Fox called Wisconsin for Trump.Does that give Trump 270 electoral votes, Alan?And The Times calls Florida for Trump.Not yet, Adam.It’s not great to kick people when they’re down, but the Clinton team and their Democratic supporters ran a campaign based on a lot of assumptions.They left Wisconsin and Michigan undefended for most of the general election.Maggie, was it an irrational decision given what they knew then? I really don’t know.Stating the obvious, this is not a good night for Barack Obama, Joe Biden and Michelle Obama, who campaigned harder for Clinton than any incumbent president or vice president that I can remember.Unless she wins Arizona or Georgia, Clinton can’t get to 270 votes.I hear what you are saying, Maggie, but didn’t the public polls show her in strong shape in those states? These decisions are data-based, right? It seems to me that again — again — we have seen a real collapse in public polling.Fox has called Georgia for Trump.And ABC has given Trump Iowa.Adam, they did. My point is the data-gathering was broken.Clearly.This isn’t just traditional pollsters, too. The Democratic analytics world was confident.It will be fascinating to see if Democrats try to form a total blockade of Trump’s agenda the way Republicans have done with Obama.Although the way Congress is shaping up, it will be hard.Nate, where do the Senate races stand?This probably rewrites the rules on how to run a campaign for president.The Republicans are favored to hold the Senate as well, Maggie.Alan, some commenters on my Twitter feed make the point that the Senate Republicans could do what their Democratic colleagues had been thinking of: invoke the nuclear option and abolish the filibuster to prevent a confirmation blockade.Hillary Clinton ran a conventional presidential campaign, one based on polling, research, get-out-the-vote operations, voter identification and spending lots of money on television advertisements. She is a politician who worked her way through the system with a long-term goal of being president, from the years when she worked on the Watergate committee, through her eight years in the Senate. Adam, Maggie and Alan, I think we ought to reflect on something that is really significant here. One part of the country is horrified and the other triumphant. So it ever was on election night. But I think this is different. I think there are residents of large cities who are looking around right now and can’t believe that they live in the same country that elected Trump. I am reminded of a famous quote from the movie critic Pauline Kael, to the effect that she didn’t know how Richard Nixon won because she didn’t know anyone who voted for him.That is absolutely right. Every campaign I’ve covered has ended with some degree of polarization. But this really feels like two completely different countries.I hate to raise this — don’t yell at me — but would Bernie Sanders have done better against Trump  tonight?Ashley Parker at Trump headquarters reports that Trump supporters at his party seemed almost equally as excited by the prospect of Clinton’s electoral misfortune as by the success of their own candidate.She tells us that one man asked what size prison jumpsuit Mrs. Clinton would wear, while others whispered excitedly about the prospect of actually sending the Democratic nominee to jail.And when the TV briefly switched over to show scenes from Mrs. Clinton’s election night gathering, one man howled, “Look at them! They’re so depressed.”It’s been raised already here!Oh, sorry. We are on hour nine here, right?If by nine you mean ninety, totally.So, the White House, the Senate and the House are poised to be held by Republicans.Another big loser tonight? President Obama. Fairly or not, a vote like this is to some extent — to some extent — a referendum on his legacy.I haven’t checked in a while, Adam, but early on, the exit polls said that Obama had a 54 percent approval rating among voters.Never before has a president invested so much of his time, energy and prestige into the election of his successor. He specifically framed it as a way of continuing his policies and legacy. He almost made it as much about him as about her. Nothing wrong with that at all — but the next four years are going to be about dismantling, or attempting to dismantle, everything Obama did for the past eight years. I would say that even if he had a 60 percent approval rating among voters.David Duke weighs in: GOD BLESS DONALD TRUMP! It’s time to do the right thing, it’s time to TAKE AMERICA BACK!!! #MAGA #AmericaFirst #LockHerUp #GodBlessAmerica— David Duke on Twitter (drdavidduke)CNBC is reporting that NASDAQ and S&P 500 have halted futures trading for the time being.When was the last time that happened?Dow futures had fallen more than 800 points.Stocks in Japan have also plunged.Politico is saying that the Democrats hold on to Harry Reid’s seat in Nevada. Makes me think Clinton will win that state too; Reid wasn’t going to let that one get away.I don’t think anyone “calls” the national popular vote, but we can say with confidence that Clinton is overwhelmingly likely to win the popular vote.Trump has now taken the lead in Pennsylvania, which means Clinton is now trailing in three must-win states: Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.For close readers of our live chat here, The Detroit Free Press has withdrawn its call of Michigan for Clinton.I’m seeing a lot of these from really smart political consultants who said Clinton was going to waltz to the White House. This from David Plouffe: Never been as wrong on anything on my life. Still a beating heart in WI and the 2 CDs. But sobriety about what happened tonight is essential— David Plouffe on Twitter (davidplouffe)The Associated Press has called Nevada for Clinton.That leaves Clinton with a very narrow path through three states in the Rust Belt.I’d note that we’re not convinced Clinton will win in Minnesota, either, Nick. Although she is at least favored there, unlike Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.In other news, marijuana is now legal in California.Voters in California and Massachusetts legalized recreational use in what advocates said was a major step toward changing the country’s attitude toward the drug.The New York TimesAs we’ve alluded to before, the polling and political analytics industries have suffered deep blows tonight. The reaction is starting to come in.And Mike Murphy, the Republican strategist who has been vocally critical of Trump, said he has lost faith in data.I’ve believed in data for 30 years in politics and data died tonight. I could not have been more wrong about this election.— mike murphy on Twitter (murphymike)One bright spot for Democrats is the election of Catherine Cortez Masto to the Senate in Nevada.Outside groups spent nearly $90 million on the tight race, but the biggest factor might have been Donald J. Trump.The New York TimesHarry Reid’s seat was not flipped. And interestingly, the Republican opponent had abandoned Trump.Networks won’t call Trump the winner until he’s clinched 270 electoral votes. We think he has a greater than 95 percent chance of getting to 270, but at the moment, he doesn’t have a greater than 95 percent chance in states that add up to 270.Trump is holding steady in Wisconsin. It appears that it all rests on Milwaukee.Nick, you spent a lot of time reporting about the rise of the “alt-right.”  Do you think it will gain mainstream acceptance if Trump pulls this out?I think a better way to think of it is that the alt-right — by the way, this is not a very precise term — was mainstreamed by Trump to some extent. It has a fairly precise language it uses that not many Trump voters, I think, actually share. But the ideas are in common: a country with a distinct culture under assault by outsiders.Mainstream Republicans who voted for Trump probably do not think of themselves as representing a “white America.” The critical thing is that their conception of America has them at the center. Voting for Trump is a way to say that they want that America to continue. I also think the fact that Trump comes from New York, in terms of media coverage of views he mainstreamed, helped him a great deal.A candidate who did not live a few blocks from a number of the cable and broadcast networks would have struggled.Ashley Parker reports from the Trump party that George T. Conway III, the husband of Trump’s campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, arrived at the Trump party around midnight, tears of joy rolling down his cheeks.He continued to weep, on and off, for the next hour, talking about how his wife had helped make history and spontaneously wrapping his friends in full-armed bear hugs.Folks, let’s talk about post-Obama Washington and the post-Trump Democrats.But parties locked out of power tend to fragment. Instead of another Republican autopsy, expect a bitter Democratic one.It is easy for me to imagine a rising Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren wing of the party, arguing that Democrats lost for not tapping enough into voter frustrations, for being too centrist.Democrats face a difficult map in 2018. If they don’t win the Senate tonight, they will have an uphill battle in two years.There is a Supreme Court vacancy that Republicans, under a President Trump, are likely to be able to fill.Who are the leaders to take the party forward now? Who runs for president in 2020 and 2024?Nick, I thought the Democrats would be in a tough place even if Clinton had won — the party was divided, had no obvious bench and, I’d argue, Mrs. Clinton had no clear mandate or agenda. I think you are going to see from the left what the Republicans have struggled with from the right for years: In this case, people like Warren and Sanders saying the party needs to return to its liberal roots to become competitive.I think a lot of forces that were contained by Obama’s historic rise and his popularity within his party are now about to be unleashed.It would have been a problem if Clinton had won (or if she does win). But it’s going to be much worse now. Which is not to say that this is going to be easygoing for the Republican Party. It is not.Senator Pat Toomey, the Pennsylvania Republican, just won re-election.Mr. Toomey’s victory in this battleground state was a relief to Republicans who had feared he might become a casualty of Donald J. Trump’s campaignThe New York TimesSo for those who are just catching up with us, we are awaiting key results in Michigan, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, which are currently too close to call.The Upshot forecast is at a 95 percent likelihood that Trump wins the presidency. He could do so with Clinton winning the popular vote.Not to be picky, but it’s a greater than 95 percent chance.The Associated Press has just called Pennsylvania for Trump.Alan and Nate, The Times just called Pennsylvania for Trump. This makes it very hard to see how Clinton climbs back.Alex Burns and I wrote a story in August about how Trump had a narrow path that related to winning Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Florida and Ohio.He appears to have done that.It appears Clinton has not left her hotel, but her campaign manager, John Podesta, has, per this CNN tweet: John Podesta, Clinton’s campaign chair, just left the Peninsula hotel. Asked if HRC was headed over, he said, “No. I’m headed over.— Dan Merica on Twitter (danmericacnn)Trump is already getting some congratulations from like-minded politicians from other countries. France’s Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front party, sent her best wishes via Twitter. Félicitations au nouveau président des Etats-Unis Donald Trump et au peuple américain, libre ! MLP— Marine Le Pen on Twitter (mlp_officiel)Here is John Podesta at the Javits Center.He is telling Clinton supporters to head home and get sleep.“We’ll have more to say tomorrow,” Podesta says.“Your voices and your enthusiasm mean so much to her and to Tim and to all of us. We are so proud of you, and we are so proud of her,” Podesta says.“She has done an amazing job, and she is not done yet,” Podesta says.He concludes by saying, “Let’s get those votes counted, and let’s get this done.”Corey Lewandowski, Trump’s former campaign manager, is assailing Clinton on CNN for failing to concede.The Associated Press and now The Times has called Alaska for the Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski. Roy Blunt is the winner in Missouri, giving control of the Senate to the Republican Party. Although Missouri has been a reliably red state in recent years, Senator Blunt’s support of Donald J. Trump turned off some of the moderate voters who had traditionally backed him.The New York TimesDemocrats picked up at least one seat but were finding others elusive, ensuring that they would remain in the minority of a fiercely divided chamber.The New York TimesIt looks like Trump is heading to the venue where he will speak.According to Sean Spicer of the Republican National Committee, Trump will speak shortly at the Hilton.CNN is calling Wisconsin for Trump.That’s a state that Trump failed to win in the Republican primary race.Here we go: The Associated Press is now projecting that Donald J. Trump has been elected president.CNN is also reporting that Clinton conceded.And Clinton may have conceded, MSNBC reports. BREAKING: SOURCE TELLS ME CLINTON HAS CONCEDED ON PHONE WITH TRUMP— Kelly O'Donnell on Twitter (kellyo)The Times is calling Wisconsin and the election for Trump.Here comes Mike Pence to the stage.Pence is giving the introduction to Trump.Maggie Haberman reports that Huma Abedin called Kellyanne Conway, who handed the phone to Trump. Clinton then conceded.Pence says he is “deeply grateful to the American people for placing their confidence in this team” and giving them the opportunity to serve.Trump is walking out on the stage. As the president-elect. No red cap.I’ll bet this is a moment he never anticipated.He is taking the stage to “Air Force One” music.Am I right that he looks a little overcome by emotion?Two teleprompters are on the stage.Hugs, kisses and handshakes for his family.Trump: “Sorry to keep you waiting; complicated business.”“I’ve just received a call from Secretary Clinton. She congratulated us; it’s about us, on our victory,” Trump says.Trump says he congratulated Clinton on her very hard-fought campaign. “We owe her a major debt of gratitude for her debt to our country,” Trump says.Trump calls for Republicans and Democrats to come together “as one united people.”A very conventional victory speech so far: congratulates Clinton and promises to be “president for all Americans” and bring the two parties together.Trump says to those who did not support him, “I am reaching out to you for your guidance and your help” to unify the country.Clinton could have given this speech. With a few, um, adjustments.We are going to rebuild our infrastructure, he said.Trump is thanking his children and siblings, including his late brother, Fred. “Fantastic guy,” Trump says.“This was tough,” Trump says of all of the hours he put in. “This political stuff is nasty, and it’s tough.”Trump gives a special thanks to Rudy Giuliani, who has been one of his staunchest supporters.And a shout out to Chris Christie.Speculation is about Christie and Giuliani in a Trump cabinet.One of the interesting things is, considering how many mainstream Republicans ran away from him, who he is going to turn to to fill his White House.Trump is saluting Ben Carson and Mike Huckabee, two of his former competitors for the Republican nomination.Trump says that Reince Priebus is a “superstar.”I’ll go out on a limb here, Alan: Reince Priebus is not going to get forced out as chairman of the Republican National Committee.Priebus takes the stage briefly to call Trump the next president of the United States. “Thank God,” he says.Trump just thanked the Secret Service. Trump: “While the campaign is over, our work on this movement is just beginning.”And Trump White House here we come.Trump concludes by saying: “I love this country.”And by playing “You Can’t Always Get What You Want,” by the Rolling Stones.On that note, we are going to wrap things up.It has been quite an evening. Thanks to all of our readers for joining us for this historic election.Thanks to you readers still with us! Both of you!We leave you with this analysis of how Trump won.Based on exit polls, the 2016 presidential election seems to have dramatically redefined how certain demographic groups vote.The New York TimesThe 2016 campaign has been about changing demographics and shifting party coalitions as much as the two main candidates.Advertisement