Advertisement
First Words By                     
SASHA CHAPIN

NOV. 15, 2017
Many of our loftiest ideals — like love, or honesty — seem relatively straightforward until the moment we try to define them and their baffling complexity is revealed. It was in this spirit that the American philosopher Josiah Royce attempted, early in the 20th century, to pin down the true meaning of loyalty. Royce believed loyalty to be the cornerstone of human goodness, the quality that allowed us to rise above individual squabbles and gather together with communal purpose. It required, in his estimation, “the willing and practical and thoroughgoing devotion of a person to a cause.”This is an interest the current president may share: Loyalty and devotion are among his most persistent fixations. In his ghostwritten memoir, “Trump: The Art of the Deal,” he valorizes the loyalty of his mentor Roy Cohn and complains indignantly about disloyal people — those who “think only about what’s best for them and don’t think twice about stabbing a friend in the back if the friend becomes a problem.” In his remarkable address to the Boy Scouts’ National Jamboree in July, he even singled out this quality from among others in the Scout Law — “thrifty,” “brave,” “reverent” — for special praise: “We could use some more loyalty,” he said. “I will tell you that.”The cause to which Trump desires such devotion, of course, generally seems to be the success and popularity of Donald Trump. This was clearest during his presidential campaign, when he asked audiences at rallies to raise their right hands and solemnly swear that they would vote for him. At one rally, in Vermont, people were required to profess their support before even being allowed inside. “I’m taking care of my people, not people who don’t want to vote for me or are undecided,” he said in a statement. “They are loyal to me, and I am loyal to them.”When you ask someone to be loyal to you personally, as Trump does, what you’re concretely requesting is that they choose your cause over other, competing interests. This is what Jesus was describing when he said, “You cannot serve two masters” — loyalty is revealed only in conflict, when you have to pick one thing over another. Loyal people aren’t just devoted. Their allegiances are durable — and as a consequence, their options are limited.But Trump himself prefers to keep his options open, and his allegiances can be quite malleable. His tendency to wash his hands of ties is widely noted, running all the way back to the 1980s, when, according to a secretary employed by Cohn — the mentor whose loyalty Trump so praised — Trump responded to Cohn’s learning of his own H.I.V. infection by severing professional ties. Trump’s ideology is just as famously flexible. Sixteen years before he ran for president as a Republican, he nearly ran under the flag of Ross Perot’s Reform Party, telling Larry King that his desired vice-presidential pick was Oprah Winfrey. He may vow to end DACA in one conversation and to work to salvage it in another. There’s no clear pattern to his changing sympathies, which means that when he demands your loyalty, you cannot quite know what it is that you’re signing up for. You can’t even count on his disloyalty: In August, he cashed in a good deal of political capital to extend a pardon to Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff of Maricopa County, Ariz. — partly out of what seemed, to genuinely surprised observers, like an earnest sense of obligation to an ally.AdvertisementIf this is a version of loyalty, it’s loyalty of a low order — fragile, transactional and much closer to simple fealty. It fails Royce’s expectation that real loyalty be based in “willingness,” rather than in fear. It’s the kind that scaffolds autocratic governments, in which the ruler’s power is always dependent on a network of unstable personal alliances — and all hints of potential disloyalty must be flamboyantly purged.AdvertisementThe core contention of Trump’s campaign, oddly enough, was that he was the only loyal candidate in the field — the only one powerful, wealthy and independent enough to act on behalf of the American hoi polloi, rather than in his own interests or those of his donors. “I didn’t need to do this,” he told a news conference in Florida, alluding to his already sizable fortune. One ad promised to replace the “corrupt establishment” who usually held power “with a new government controlled by you, the American people.”There’s an important claim at the heart of this kind of populism — that the failings of government aren’t a problem of policy, but a problem of allegiance. It isn’t that politicians are incapable of improving the lives of ordinary Americans; it’s that they choose not to, because their true interests lie elsewhere. This is the genius of a slogan like “Make America Great Again,” with its implication that other politicians have a more noncommittal attitude concerning the nation’s potential greatness. By signaling, over and over, that his loyalties lay somewhere outside the norm, Trump could build an ad hoc coalition of people who felt ill served by the normal political class, for almost any reason at all — an effect only reinforced by every attack on his campaign. When Hillary Clinton referred to many of his supporters as “deplorables,” she offered them the gift of a name — along with hard evidence that Trump was, in fact, their only loyal protector, and the only one interested in their opinions and grievances.One of Trump’s inspirations, judging by how often he used to tweet passages from it, is Sun Tzu’s “The Art of War,” which contains some instructions about how to maintain such loyalty. “If soldiers are punished before a personal attachment to the leadership is formed,” it says, “they will not submit, and if they do not submit, they are hard to employ.” When it comes to voters, Trump turns out to have followed this advice quite closely. While promising them, at great length, the rebirth of the coal industry and the instant replacement of Obamacare, he instilled in them an enduring personal attachment. And that bond has allowed him to characterize the incomplete realization of those promises as failures of the political machine he swore to combat, rather than as examples of his own inadequacy.We tend to think of loyalty as a virtue, but the truth is that it can lead to any number of outcomes — from heroism to cravenness and complicity with evil. A lot depends on its object. “Tell me who you loyal to,” Kendrick Lamar asks in his song “Loyalty”: “Is it money? Is it fame? Is it weed? Is it drink?” Loyalty is only a virtue insofar as it provokes virtuous consequences.And yet people have always thought we could use more of it and mourned its passing. More than 100 years ago, as pointed out by the author Eric Felten in his book “Loyalty: The Vexing Virtue,” the Irish novelist and politician Justin McCarthy wrote that loyalty “is gone! It is a memory!” As far back as 160 B.C., scholars have found, the Roman dramatist Terence was referring to fidelity as belonging solely to more ancient times. We’re prone to imagining some long-gone golden age in which people acted more reliably — and in the service of some agreed-upon collective good.What we’re missing is, perhaps, not the loyalty itself but a communal sense of what we should be loyal to. This, in the end, is what Josiah Royce came to consider the point of loyalty: an attachment to ever-higher ideals, until whole societies could dedicate themselves to some utopian vision that, while never fully realized, might unite citizens in their striving for it.There are shades of this thinking in the title of the coming book by the former F.B.I. director James Comey: “A Higher Loyalty.” It’s with Comey, of course, that Trump reportedly made his boldest call for fealty, telling the director, “I expect loyalty” — the obvious implication being that Comey should shy away from legal inquiries that might harm the president. Comey testified to the Senate that he made a more Roycean counteroffer: “honesty.” Trump, ever the dealmaker, supposedly tried to broker this back to “honest loyalty.”The Republican senator Jeff Flake, in a speech announcing that he would not be standing for re-election, reached twice for the same word: A segment of his party, he said, had come to believe that “anything short of complete and unquestioning loyalty” to the president was unacceptable. But the president, he said, quoting Theodore Roosevelt, “should be supported or opposed exactly to the degree which is warranted by his good conduct or bad conduct, his efficiency or inefficiency in rendering loyal, able and disinterested service to the nation as a whole.”AdvertisementThis, perhaps, is the consequence of a campaign rooted in the lowest forms of loyalty. Trump’s aggressive insistence on transactional, partisan cronyism has clearly inspired, in some quarters, renewed thinking about the purpose and value of loyalty itself. We are seeing, with unsettling clarity, the limits of fidelity to a person, a faction, an agenda. And we are beginning to search for some better place to direct it.Sasha Chapin is the author of the forthcoming book “The Perfect Information Game.” He last wrote for the magazine about the alarming new salience of the term “Nazi.”Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.A version of this article appears in print on November 19, 2017, on Page MM15 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Sympathy Card.  Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »