AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam Goldman and Charlie SavageWASHINGTON — Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, defended his work force in an email on Monday, a day after President Trump said on Twitter that the agency’s standing was the “worst in History” and its reputation was in “Tatters.”In a message to the F.B.I.’s 35,000 agents and support staff that was provided to The New York Times, Mr. Wray said that he was “inspired by example after example of professionalism and dedication to justice demonstrated around the bureau. It is truly an honor to represent you.” He did not mention Mr. Trump by name.The president’s criticism was among several recent indications of his fury over the Justice Department investigation into links between his campaign and Russia. He accused F.B.I. agents of unfair treatment of Michael T. Flynn, his former national security adviser, who pleaded guilty last week to lying to the F.B.I. In another weekend tweet, Mr. Trump said he fired Mr. Flynn for doing so.Critics seized on that assertion as evidence that the president obstructed justice, a confession that he knew Mr. Flynn had committed a crime when, a day after firing him, he pressured the former F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, to drop the investigation into Mr. Flynn, according to testimony from Mr. Comey.But one of Mr. Trump’s lawyers, John Dowd, said that his client did not write the tweet and suggested that the president cannot be prosecuted on such a charge.Mr. Dowd argued in a statement to the news website Axios that Mr. Trump “cannot obstruct justice because he is the chief law enforcement officer” under the Constitution, and thus “has every right to express his view of any case.”A White House spokesman traveling with the president on Monday would not answer questions about the president’s tweets. Mr. Trump has denied that he tried to impede the F.B.I. investigation into Mr. Flynn, portraying Mr. Comey, who wrote contemporaneous memos about his talks with Mr. Trump before the president fired him, as a liar.The furor over the president’s tweets highlighted the complexity of the obstruction accusations. Both the facts of what happened and the law that should be applied to those facts remain in dispute, even as the actions under scrutiny stretch in different directions, from Mr. Flynn’s misconduct to the fate of the far broader Russian interference investigation.Samuel W. Buell, a Duke University law professor and former federal prosecutor, said that the argument by Mr. Trump’s defenders went too far because it would place any president above the law even if he or she exercises a presidential power for illegitimate purposes. While Congress can impeach presidents for conduct beyond violations of ordinary law, he said, analyzing the obstruction statutes would be an obvious starting point.“If they want to argue factually that Trump fired Comey because he thought he was a bad F.B.I. director and that is all it was, then that is not obstruction because he’s exercising the presidential power properly,” Mr. Buell said. “But if he pressures Comey and asks him to drop the Flynn investigation in order to protect the president and his most senior advisers, that is an improper exercise of presidential authority.”The president’s renewed drumbeat against the investigation came after the revelation on Friday that Mr. Flynn had accepted a plea deal and agreed to cooperate with Mr. Mueller’s investigation.“I feel badly for General Flynn,” Mr. Trump said on Monday as he left the White House for an event in Utah. “I feel very badly. He’s led a very strong life, and I feel very badly.He added: “Hillary Clinton lied many times to the F.B.I. Nothing happened to her. Flynn lied and they destroyed his life.”The president’s comments about the F.B.I. angered agents and other staff who have been caught in a political maelstrom since the president dismissed Mr. Comey. The F.B.I. had hoped that after firing Mr. Comey, the president would stop targeting the bureau.Mr. Trump compared Mr. Flynn’s case to the federal investigation into Hillary Clinton’s handling of classified information. After being interviewed by the F.B.I., she was not charged.Mr. Wray, who has run the F.B.I. for about four months, told his employees to ignore any criticism and to continue to uphold the Constitution.“We find ourselves under the microscope each and every day — and rightfully so. We do hard work for a living,” he said, adding that the F.B.I. should “continue to keep focused on our critical mission.”The email concluded with one of his favorite maxims: “Keep calm and tackle hard.”An F.B.I. spokesman declined to comment.The president’s longstanding claim that no connections exist between his associates and Russia also suffered a blow on Monday evening when prosecutors revealed in court documents that his former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, had been in contact with “a longtime Russian colleague” believed to have ties to Russian intelligence.A person close to Mr. Manafort identified the associate as Konstantin V. Kilimnik, who worked for years as Mr. Manafort’s close aide in Ukraine and communicated with him throughout the 2016 presidential campaign.The two drafted an op-ed article last week about Mr. Manafort’s work for Russian-aligned interests in Ukraine, according to court papers filed by Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors in arguing for tougher bail restrictions for Mr. Manafort. He has pleaded not guilty to charges of money laundering and lobbying violations related to his work for Viktor F. Yanukovych, the former Ukrainian president.Mr. Kilimnik was born in Ukraine when it was a part of the Soviet Union and served briefly in the Russian Army as a linguist, later telling associates that he had a background in Russian intelligence. But as scrutiny of his work with Mr. Manafort mounted this year, Mr. Kilimnik denied any such association. And an investigation by Ukrainian prosecutors into Mr. Kilimnik’s possible ties to Russian spy agencies was closed last year without charges.Follow Adam Goldman and Charlie Savage on Twitter: @adamgoldmanNYT and @charlie_savage.Michael S. Schmidt and Kenneth P. Vogel contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS