AdvertisementSupported byLettersTo the Editor:I read with great interest “In Trying to Avoid Politics, Comey Shaped an Election” (front page, April 23), not least because James Comey, as an assistant United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, was a junior colleague of mine, and later, as the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, my boss.I have no idea what Mr. Comey’s thinking was in commenting last July on what he perceived to be Hillary Clinton’s “carelessness” in connection with her private email server or in publicly reopening his investigation of her shortly before the election based on what ultimately proved to be nothing of substance. What I can say is this: In both instances he violated every rule in the book governing the conduct of federal law enforcement officials and did so in a way that was partisan and that indubitably affected the outcome of the election.During my nearly 37 years as a public prosecutor, I participated in numerous investigations of high-profile public figures. A number of those investigations resulted in no charges being brought, and in such cases we issued either no statement at all or a very brief statement to the effect that the investigation in question had yielded insufficient evidence to warrant the filing of charges.Had I done what Mr. Comey had in the case of Mrs. Clinton, I would, unquestionably, have been subjected to discipline, up to and including being fired. The head of the F.B.I. is subject to the same rules as I was; he should be subject to the same discipline.ELLIOTT B. JACOBSONSCARSDALE, N.Y.To the Editor:Even if the F.B.I. finds that there was Russian influence on the 2016 election, no one is reasonably suggesting that the Russians somehow hacked voting machines (which are not connected to the internet) or altered vote counts. No one is suggesting that the Hillary Clinton campaign emails that the Russians may have passed to WikiLeaks were not authentic or were in any way altered.So, at worst, the Russians may have made available to American voters true and accurate information about Mrs. Clinton that may indeed have influenced votes. Of course, none of this would had happened had Mrs. Clinton and her staff been more responsible with email security.STANLEY MOGELSONPHILADELPHIATo the Editor:No matter his intentions, James Comey’s actions helped enable Donald Trump’s victory. Now, by vigorously pursuing the F.B.I.’s investigations into the relationships between Mr. Trump, his campaign and Russian intelligence agencies, he could help enable Mr. Trump’s impeachment. Poetic justice?DAVID HILL, MILL VALLEY, CALIF.To the Editor:As your article noted, President Barack Obama was reluctant to go public with the news that it had been determined that the Russians were trying to influence the election. And then Attorney General Loretta Lynch could have issued an order forbidding James Comey to go public with the news of the reopening of the investigation into Hillary Clinton but did not. The explanation for this was that the administration did not want to be perceived as interfering in the election in a partisan manner.This contrasts sharply with what we have gotten from Republicans over the years, as they are not above using any dirty trick necessary to win — from the 2000 presidential election, when the vote recount in Miami was interrupted by Republican rioters, to the Republican effort to suppress voters in the guise of preventing voter fraud. The Republicans have not had to pay a price for that and now control all three branches of government.DOUG GERBER, NEW YORKAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS