AdvertisementBy JACEY FORTINMAY 10, 2017
Facing allegations that he sexually abused minors in the 1980s, Mayor Ed Murray of Seattle said this week that he would not seek re-election.Flanked by about two-dozen colleagues and family members, Mr. Murray, the city’s first openly gay mayor, announced his decision at a news conference on Tuesday. He said he would step down after one term because he did not want a scandal to dominate this year’s mayoral campaign.“The allegations against me paint me in the worst possible historic portrait of a gay man,” said Mr. Murray, who has staunchly denied any wrongdoing. “The allegations against me are not true, and I say this with all honesty and with the deepest sincerity.”Last month, Delvonn Heckard, 46, filed a lawsuit accusing Mr. Murray of sexually abusing him when he was a teenager. At least three other men have gone public with similar allegations. Mr. Murray’s lawyers have pointed out that all four people who have made accusations against Mr. Murray have criminal records.AdvertisementMr. Murray has been mayor since 2013. Before the lawsuit was filed, he had been expected to win a second term. Instead, he will step down after his current term ends in December.The lawsuit claims that Mr. Murray and Mr. Heckard met on a bus when Mr. Heckard was 15. It said Mr. Murray, then around 32, paid him for sexual contact on multiple occasions.AdvertisementThe recent death of Mr. Heckard’s father, followed by counseling, prompted Mr. Heckard to revisit old trauma “in an attempt at accountability, and to hopefully give courage for other potential victims to come forward,” the lawsuit said.Lincoln Beauregard, Mr. Heckard’s lawyer, said Mr. Murray’s announcement on Tuesday did not make much difference to the case.“We were never sitting back trying to debate the mayor’s fitness for office,” he said. “We’re trying to win a lawsuit.”Over the past month, the scandal has taken some unexpected turns. After the lawsuit revealed details about a mole on Mr. Murray’s genitals, for instance, representatives of the mayor furnished a doctor’s note saying no such mole was present, The Seattle Times reported.And last week, Mr. Beauregard, Mr. Heckard’s lawyer, was fined $5,000 for ethical violations. The mayor’s lawyers argued, among other things, that Mr. Beauregard had filed documents “for the sole purpose of using the Court as his mouthpiece to the press.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The suit also brought new attention to older allegations of sexual abuse by Mr. Murray. In 2007, a man named Jeff Simpson accused Mr. Murray of paying him for sex during the 1980s. Mr. Simpson’s friend Lloyd Anderson corroborated that with similar memories of his own, according to a memo from a lawyer who interviewed Mr. Anderson. Both were minors at the time of the alleged sexual contact.In 2007 Katherine Heekin, a lawyer representing Mr. Murray, wrote in a letter that Mr. Simpson was “totally untrustworthy,” given an extensive criminal record that indicated “an ability to conspire with others to violate the law,” as well as a history of both prostitution and making false accusations while in the foster care system.AdvertisementThe case was dropped shortly thereafter, in part because of concerns over a statute of limitations, according to The Stranger, a Seattle newspaper.The fourth man to publicly accuse Mr. Murray of sexual misconduct was Maurice Levon Jones. In support of Mr. Heckard’s case, Mr. Jones said in a declaration last week that Mr. Murray “was known for patronizing child prostitutes,” and “gave me money for sex.”Mr. Murray has been a proponent of gay rights during his time in public office. As a state senator, he sponsored legislation to legalize gay marriage. It was recognized in Washington State in 2012, and less than a year later, Mr. Murray married his longtime partner, Michael Shiosaki.Mr. Murray has also been a critic of President Trump. In March, he announced that Seattle was filing a lawsuit to prevent so-called sanctuary cities from losing federal funding, in response to the administration’s tough stance on immigration.In a news release on Tuesday, the mayor’s office said that Mr. Murray had “championed equity during his term in City Hall.” A spokesman for the office said Wednesday that Mr. Murray would not make further comments on the lawsuit.The mayor was emotional on Tuesday as he announced that he would step down at the end of this year. “My heart aches,” he said. “Since I was 12 years old, politics has been my life and my dream.”Mr. Beauregard said it was important that the city was finally paying attention to the victims of the alleged abuse. “We consider it a huge success that there’s been so much discussion,” he said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »