AdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew R. ChowAlec Baldwin’s return to “Saturday Night Live” this weekend prompted another fiery response from President-elect Donald J. Trump on Twitter.I watched parts of @nbcsnl Saturday Night Live last night. It is a totally one-sided, biased show - nothing funny at all. Equal time for us?The episode’s cold open features Mr. Baldwin portraying Mr. Trump as stunned and unprepared for the reality of being president. In the skit, he meets with various figures, including Kate McKinnon’s Kellyanne Conway, a campaign staffer from coal country and a general, who is eager to hear about the president-elect’s secret plan to defeat ISIS. After the general leaves, Mr. Trump promptly begins searching online for “What is Isis?” Mr. Trump proceeds to renege on assorted campaign promises, including repealing Obamacare, deporting illegal immigrants and creating coal-mining jobs.Jason Sudeikis, a former cast member now starring in an Off Broadway production of “Dead Poets Society,” appeared as Mitt Romney, and Beck Bennett played Vice President-elect Mike Pence, who was confronted by the “Hamilton” cast on Friday. In the sketch, Mr. Trump asks him about attending that Broadway show and Mr. Pence responds evenhandedly, “It was good; I got a free lecture.”Early Sunday morning, Mr. Trump took to Twitter to first double down on his criticism of “Hamilton,” before turning his attention to “Saturday Night Live.”The “Saturday Night Live” episode was hosted by the former cast member Kristen Wiig, and did not shy away from political commentary. (Last week’s episode, hosted by Dave Chappelle, skipped an overly political cold open in favor of Kate McKinnon dressed as Hillary Clinton singing Leonard Cohen’s “Hallelujah.”) One skit served as an advertisement for the liberal bubble, with the tagline: “In here, it’s like the election never happened.” Another skit revealed outraged CNN anchors to be repetitive, malfunctioning androids from HBO’s “Westworld.”And on “Weekend Update,” Michael Che and Colin Jost discussed the election and questioned Mr. Trump’s desire to be president. Mr. Che said: “He just liked the chase. He enjoyed wooing America for 18 months.”Later on Sunday, Mr. Baldwin responded to Mr. Trump through his foundation’s Twitter account, and hinted that he would continue to perform as Mr. Trump on the show.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS