
At 21, Sam Smith is the new golden boy of the British pop scene. He arrived in 2012 after singing on the buzzy track “Latch” by the dance duo Disclosure, and his falsetto has since appeared on two other tunes that have shot to the top of the British charts (Naughty Boy’s “La La La” and his own “Money on My Mind”). This year, he’s already snagged the Critics’ Choice Award at the esteemed Brit Awards, been named the BBC’s Sound of 2014 and sung a duet onstage with Taylor Swift, who called him her “absolute favorite new artist.” This weekend, he will be the musical guest on “Saturday Night Live,” ahead of his upcoming debut album, “In the Lonely Hour.” Here, Smith talks about sudden success, that time his parents split up in New York and why he’d like to be thought of as a “male diva.”Let’s go back in time to when you were a kid in England with a passion for singing. You hooked up with a jazz singer?I was 8 years old, singing in my car, and my parents thought I could sing. So they put me into singing lessons with a local jazz teacher. As soon as I realized I was good at it, I ran with it, and haven’t really stopped since.And you were in stage shows too?I always knew I wanted to be an entertainer and sing, but I went through phases. First it was jazz music. Then I started doing musical theater and fell in love with that. I was always kind of struggling, but when I was around 15 I decided to leave musical theater behind and put all my efforts into pop music.That Disclosure track “Latch,” which you were featured on, absolutely exploded last year. How did you get involved with it?

Nothing I’ve done, however popular, has affected people as much as “Latch” has. The songwriting and production on that track are just second to none. Me, Disclosure and writer Jimmy Napes all met at a stage when we were all really hungry for something. I was working in a bar, Jimmy was writing for years and years, and Disclosure was looking for the first single for their album. I think you can hear it in my voice. I did that vocal on my lunch break from the bar. That song is one of my proudest moments.You shot the video for your single “Money On My Mind” in Vegas. What was that experience like?

When you hear of a song called “Money On My Mind” you think of a certain type of song. Then, when you listen to the lyrics, it’s saying something completely different. That’s what I wanted to do with the video as well. When I told people it was going to be in a place like Las Vegas, they all kind of thought they knew what to expect. However, what we shot was a real artistic, beautiful, more poverty-stricken glimpse of the city. I love the old part of Vegas where Frank Sinatra used to perform because of the history, but aside from that, Vegas is a little too much for me.Tell me about being in New York City.My mom and dad actually split up in New York. We went on a family holiday, and it was here where me and my sisters found out. It sounds quite awful, but it was actually a funny week. We’re all very, very close now because of that one week we had in New York, so the city has a very special place in my heart. Plus, last year when I performed at the Mercury Lounge, it was one of the highlights of my career, and even my life, because it was the first time I heard a crowd singing back my songs to me.Your music combines a lot of styles. When you were growing up, which artists made an impression on you?I’ve always loved big female voices like Chaka Khan, Whitney Houston, Etta James and Beyoncé. There’s some amazing guy singers out there at the moment, but I want to have the presence vocally that some of the divas did. We need a male diva, and not in personality. I miss those George Michael and Elton John types, those people who would float in and out of genres, because that’s what I like to do with my music – be genreless. I want it to be about my voice and what I’m saying.