AdvertisementSupported byBy Carrie BattanCan a calamity plus a couple of months at Bellevue Hospital Center equal comedy?That was the question facing Liza Dye, 25, at the Manhattan performance space Ars Nova last week.Her set there last Wednesday was her first since she fell from a subway platform and was struck by a train in February. She almost lost her left leg, endured nine operations and spent nearly three months in the hospital. But days after her release, Ms. Dye took the stage in a wheelchair and opened a kind of a fireside chat, offering the crowd medical horror stories in the tone of someone recalling a bad date. “A surgeon told me: ‘Hey, I got good news for you. You won’t ever have to shave that leg again,’ ” she told the audience.“Places I’d rather be than Bellevue Hospital: Chris Brown’s arms. Hell. Donald Sterling’s heart.”“One thing I’ve learned in the trauma wing at Bellevue,” she continued, “is that people who get hit by trains are a lot nicer than people who get hit by cars.”On Wednesday night, Ms. Dye is to perform at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in Chelsea before heading to her mother’s home in South Carolina to recover further and seek work at comedy clubs there. She had been doing stand-up for only a few months before the subway accident. But she had begun making a name for herself, appearing regularly at Upright Citizens and in one case in a group audition for “Saturday Night Live.” Then her life was upended. “You know when you’re on the train and it stops for a long time, and people start to grumble? I could hear people doing that,” she said in an interview at the hospital last month. “So I started shouting, ‘I’m sorry I made you late for work!’ ” Oddly enough, Ms. Dye’s accident has brought her more professional exposure. Once word of the accident spread, primarily through New York’s tabloids and social media, comedians mobilized to raise money to cover her medical bills, with established names like Aziz Ansari, Janeane Garofalo, Hannibal Buress and Chelsea Peretti performing at benefits in New York and Los Angeles. Ms. Dye said she had also received donations from the actor Zach Braff and the comedian Louis C.K., surpassing a fund-raising goal of $75,000.But how does a comic take advantage of this mini-moment? And does she really want to be indelibly known as the comic who fainted and almost lost her leg under the B train at the Broadway-Lafayette station in SoHo?Physical calamity is certainly no stranger to comedy. In 2012 Tig Notaro did a stand-up set about her battle with breast cancer that is now viewed as a benchmark for routines about life’s grimmest pivots; Mike Birbiglia has told stories about his extreme sleepwalking, which once led him to jump through a hotel window, shattering it.For Ms. Dye, the longing for recognition and experience before her accident has intensified into an electric desire to seize an opportunity, hedged with some concern. “I feel like everybody is looking at me to see what I’m going to do,” she said after the show last week. “I didn’t want people giving me sympathy laughs.”Ms. Dye, sociable and new-media-savvy, has skillfully navigated the city’s comedy scene, according to Charla Lauriston, a local comedian who helped organize a benefit for her in March.“I have no idea how I first met Liza Dye,” she said. “She came out of nowhere. She was just always around.” When Ms. Lauriston needed a D.J. for her regular comedy show, Ms. Dye volunteered. “I could tell how hungry she was,” Ms. Lauriston said.In November, after Kenan Thompson of “Saturday Night Live” stirred wide indignation by attributing the show’s lack of black female cast members to a shortage of talent, Ms. Dye, who is black, helped organize a comedy show for minority female performers.Soon afterward she received a message from an “SNL” producer asking her to take part in a showcase at the Peoples Improv Theater, where the show’s creator, Lorne Michaels, was rumored to be in attendance. Among the performers was Sasheer Zamata, who made her debut on “SNL” in January. Ms. Dye drew hearty laughs for impersonations of Jay-Z and the Obamas.That trajectory was thrown off by her accident. But Ms. Dye had ample time to write material in the hospital while recuperating, and to form bonds with prominent performers. Mr. Ansari learned of her predicament on Twitter. “I didn’t really know her before this whole thing,” said Mr. Ansari, the actor and comedian, who organized a benefit show in February in Los Angeles to help with her medical bills. Now he thinks she might be able to harness her travails in a productive way. “It’s always good to have an experience to help you write,” he said. “But ideally, you don’t get hit by a subway.”Nate Dern, artistic director of the Upright Citizens Brigade, who also helped organize a benefit for Ms. Dye, suggested that the accident might have a shelf life. “That’s kind of the question — if she wants to be known as the comic who got hit by a train, she could make something out of it,” he said. But he added, “Trying to make more out of a momentary blip sometimes doesn’t work.”Ms. Dye seems to recognize the risk of turning her accident into a go-to routine. “I was eager to do shows as soon as I got out so that I could get rid of this hospital material and move on with my life,” she said.At Ars Nova last week, she inched toward sentimentality for a brief moment, recalling her Easter in the hospital. “I started to feel like I wanted to send out one of those ‘Happy Easter!’ texts,” she said. “But I didn’t. Because I usually hate those people.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS