In pop music, hindsight is the key to relevance. There is the Warholian logic to the iTunes chart: the artist who appropriates a particular time period with the most cunning and skill feels the freshest. The Los Angeles-based musical duo Rhye have received critical acclaim recently for evoking the early-‘80s-era “quiet storm” of Sade. Azealia Banks channels the 1990s with her best Crystal Waters imitation with about the same success as Lady Gaga’s echoing of Blond Ambition-era Madonna. (Remember that?) The moody atmosphere of Drake’s oeuvre picks up the pieces that Aaliyah left behind in 2001. And the dance-pop white noise that inhabits the radio today is, of course, a rehash of the Euro-pop and rave culture of yesteryear that Daft Punk helped foster. The French D.J. duo, who recently signed to Columbia and have a new album coming out in time for summer, are said to be working with the funk legend Niles Rodgers for their anticipated new release, situating themselves comfortably in the 1970s disco revival moment that has become a staple of underground night-life culture in Paris, London and New York.So it’s fitting, then, that Justin Timberlake has called his latest record “The 20/20 Experience.” Timberlake recently announced that the title refers to the album’s two parts, with a second 10-track album due out at an undisclosed future date. But “20/20″ is also an anagram for 2002, the year that his first solo record, “Justified,” was released and the moment in time when he jumped from a boy-band lightweight to the King of Pop. “Justified,” perhaps one of the most influential pop records of the past 20 years, was the first time Timberlake hooked up with the producer Timbaland, for the album standout, “Cry Me a River.” The pair would later work together for the majority of Timberlake’s sophomore effort, “FutureSex/LoveSounds,” which was released in 2006.That Timbaland, who hasn’t had a radio smash these days, is the lead producer on Timberlake’s latest offering in 2013 once again has led many critics to cry artistic foul. Is Timberlake lazy? Is he no longer able to keep his ear to the ground and find new talent to team up with? Or is he so famous that he no longer needs to climb down from his “SNL” perch and bother wasting his time with current radio trends?But mostly, it has been a chorus of “Really, Justin? Really?” In his review for The New York Times, the critic Jon Caramanica called Timberlake’s current offering “an amiable, anodyne album that hopes not to alienate anyone but also doesn’t offer new reasons to commit.” He added, “It’s an album of largely inconsequential beauty, showing Mr. Timberlake as an artist with no incentive to innovate, making this primarily a paean to brand maintenance.”The album, chock-full of retro Timbaland baby gurgles, familiar hand claps and banal lyrics about flavored bubble gum, delivers its artistry through its familiarity. This is a record that unabashedly evokes the early “aughts,” the time window from 2002 to 2006 that Timberlake and Timbaland helped define, as its singular sonic purpose. Not unlike Beyonce channeling ’80s R&B for her album “4,” Timberlake clings to the musical soundscape of the early millennium with blinders on. His suit-and-tie look for this record might be a tired homage to Cary Grant, but musically, the recent-retro of last decade is so overt and in your face that you have no choice but concede it as a formal aspect of the record. Among a sea of pop nostalgia for just about every era imaginable, Timberlake is the first pop star to reference the sound of the ’00s as a conscious purpose of intent.If every decade is eventually ripe for pillaging, then Timberlake has cast the first stone at this particular time window. It was only a matter of years before Timbaland’s influential sound became a recyclable product once again, and who better to serve it back up than its original ambassadors? (Be thankful it wasn’t Justin Bieber.) By going with what he knows on “The 20/20 Experience,” Timberlake has, paradoxically, placed himself in front of the pop set once again.