AdvertisementBy TERRY PRISTINJUNE 26, 2012
When Boston Properties, a real estate investment trust that focuses on prime office buildings in five markets in the United States, said recently that it had abandoned efforts — at least for now — to make its first foray into the London market, many Wall Street analysts were relieved.The possibility that Boston Properties might tamper with its winning formula had created some uneasiness in the investment world, where the governing mantra these days is “stick to what you know.”“They’ve been so clear and focused that in order for them to go into other markets, there had better be a really compelling reason,” said Ross T. Nussbaum, a senior analyst at UBS. “For them to take on the risk, the investment returns have to be exceptional.”Founded in Boston in 1970 by Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Edward H. Linde, Boston Properties has been a public company since 1997. Today it owns and manages 153 properties in the New York, Boston, Washington and San Francisco areas as well as in Princeton, N.J., and it also has the only office tower currently under construction in Midtown Manhattan.AdvertisementIts portfolio includes high-profile office towers like the General Motors Building and 601 Lexington Avenue in New York (the former Citigroup Center); the Prudential Center and John Hancock Tower in Boston; and the Embarcadero Center in San Francisco. Mr. Zuckerman, 75, often boils down the company’s strategy to a single phrase: owning “A buildings in A locations.”Advertisement“We have, as a company, had a particular kind of strategy to concentrate in certain markets, where we thought we would do well in good times, and not do terribly in bad times,” he said last week. “Everybody does well in good times, but the buildings we have found that do the best in bad times are A buildings in A locations. It’s that simple.”Indeed, since the depths of the recession, commercial real estate prices in major markets have recovered more than twice as quickly as those in nonmajor markets, showing an increase of 37.1 percent compared with 17.5 percent, according to Moody’s/RCA Commercial Property Price Indices.Since Mr. Linde’s death in 2010, Mr. Zuckerman, owner of The Daily News and U.S. News & World Report (where he is also editor in chief), has stepped up his involvement in the real estate company, assuming Mr. Linde’s title of chief executive. Mr. Linde’s son, Douglas, with the company 15 years, is president. In contrast to Mr. Zuckerman’s media holdings, which have experienced a great deal of turnover, Boston Properties is known for its stable management team.In addition to praising the high-quality portfolio, analysts give the company high marks for not taking on too much debt, and for being a skilled developer, operator and longtime owner, not just a wheeler-dealer. “They have a longstanding track record of doing fairly complicated center-city development, which gives them a competitive advantage,” said Ross Smotrich, a managing director at Barclays who focuses on real estate investment trusts, or REITs.Near the peak of the market, while a buying frenzy was taking hold, Boston Properties sold billions of dollars of buildings, including 5 Times Square for $1.28 billion, and 280 Park Avenue for $1.2 billion. “They’ve done a very good job of managing risk,” said Barry Vinocur, the editor of REIT Zone Publications in Novato, Calif. “They showed an ability to pull their chips off the table when others weren’t doing it.”Those transactions enabled Boston Properties to take advantage of the downturn in the market and acquire trophy office towers like the General Motors Building in 2008 and the John Hancock Tower in 2010.Since the commercial real estate market was at its lowest, on March 1, 2009, total returns for Boston Properties have outperformed SNL Financial’s United States REIT Office Index by 209 percent to 165 percent, according to SNL, a research company in Charlottesville, Va.AdvertisementSignaling its confidence in the future of the New York office market, Boston Properties resumed construction last year of a 39-story Midtown Manhattan office tower at Eighth Avenue and 55th Street after halting work on the project during the downturn. In May, the last beam was placed on the building.Mr. Zuckerman made the decision to go ahead even though the building has only one tenant so far, the national law firm Morrison & Foerster, which is leasing 184,000 square feet, about 19 percent of the total. Two other law firms, Chadbourne & Parke and Kaye Scholer, as well as Microsoft, are reportedly considering taking space there, though Mr. Zuckerman would not discuss potential tenants.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The tower will be the first new office building in Midtown since 11 Times Square, on Eighth Avenue between 41st and 42nd Streets, was completed last year. That building is only about 40 percent leased, but is arguably in a more pioneering stretch of Eighth Avenue than the Boston Properties building, 250 West 55th Street, near the Hearst Tower and the Time Warner Center.Still, analysts said the new Boston Properties building was not without risk. “It’s a great physical product,” said John W. Guinee III, a managing director at Stifel Nicolaus. “But it’s a secondary location in Manhattan. The market is very thin at over $100 a square foot, particularly if you’re not on Park Avenue or in the Plaza district.”In addition, the building is being marketed primarily to law firms at a time when that business is contracting. At a recent conference call with analysts, company officials acknowledged that law practices today need less space than they used to. But Robert E. Selsam, the senior vice president who manages Boston Properties’ New York office, said, “I have seen no movement away from private window offices for attorneys.”A rival New York office landlord, Scott Rechler, chief executive of the privately held RXR Realty, said that the new building will not be ready for tenants until 2014, when demand for space is expected to rise. “The timing is going to work out for them,” Mr. Rechler said. “They can afford to be patient and bring in the right tenants at the right rents.”Despite its blue-chip reputation, Boston Properties has not entirely escaped criticism. Analysts raised eyebrows when the company, like many other REITs, sold additional shares in 2009 to shore up its balance sheet, in that way diluting the value of the existing shares. Additionally, Michael Knott, a senior analyst at Green Street Advisors, a research company in Newport Beach, Calif., said the company should have moved aggressively to acquire buildings in the hot San Francisco area.“One could say we should have a larger portfolio in all the markets we are in,” Mr. Zuckerman said in response.Mr. Vinocur points out that Boston Properties’ decision in 1998 to make its first investment in San Francisco by buying the Embarcadero Center, an office and retail complex in the financial district, drew the same kind of complaints more recently leveled at the company for dipping its toe in the London market.These days, analysts are a little more willing to give the company the benefit of the doubt. Though officials have said they looked at several properties in London, it was widely reported that they had considered buying Drapers Gardens, a 292,500-square-foot building in the financial district. “Had they consummated that deal,” Mr. Knott said, “we would have been skeptical, but we wouldn’t have changed our perception of their entire body of work.”AdvertisementMr. Zuckerman made it clear that he had not ruled out investing in London at some point. “We’re going to continue to look,” he said. “The London market has a lot of characteristics that we do like.”A version of this article appears in print on June 27, 2012, on Page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: Boston Properties Sticks to Its Formula.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »