Tonight the Hollywood Foreign Press Association handed out its Golden Globe awards at the Beverly Hilton Hotel. Golden GlobesAnalysis of the nominees, more images, reactions and more. Melena Ryzik (The Carpetbagger), Stuart Emmrich, the Styles editor, Simone Oliver, the online Styles editor, the Hollywood reporters Brooks Barnes and Michael Cieply, the culture reporter Dave Itzkoff and the television critic Mike Hale reported on the red carpet and the ceremony. Analysis of the nominees, more images, reactions and more.Golden Globes to ‘Argo’ and ‘Les Misérables’
Alessandra Stanley’s TV Watch: Saluting Girl Power in Hollywood
Red carpet and winners slide shows. | A complete list of winners. 



11:21 P.M. A Tough Act for the Oscars to Follow
MIKE HALE: “Argo’s” win is a big boost for a movie whose Oscar hopes were seen to be flagging, though it remains to be seen if Academy voters will appreciate the civics lessons of “Lincoln” more than the foreign press did.DAVE ITZKOFF:  Last joke of the evening goes to Amy Poehler: “Good night, we’re going home with Jodie Foster.” Hard to know what momentum the Golden Globes will transfer onto its winners tonight. But that was a hugely successful show all around.  If its goal was to generate memorable moments – regardless of who took home trophies – then I think you’d have to say it fulfilled its mission. An amazing opening give-and-take riff by hosts Tina Fey and Amy Poehler, and their mischievous spirit infused the rest of the night. The other bookend would of course have to be Jodie Foster’s acceptance speech for the Cecil B. DeMille award which, whether or not you agreed with its sentiment – if its sentiment could be discerned – all adds up to a tough act for the Oscars to follow.MIKE HALE:  My feelings were more mixed — I thought it was an enjoyable, smooth, conservative show whose funny moments were all safely within bounds. Which might be part of the reason Jodie Foster’s speech stood out the way it did — there wasn’t much other craziness to be had. But that could be the cultural mood of the moment, reflected in the multiple victories for the repurposed warhorse “Les Miz” and the feel-good period piece “Argo.” Personally, I could have used a little Ricky Gervais.Everyone knows the drill on the Globes red carpet. On Sunday evening, the actresses quickly ran through their lines. “It’s tight, it’s lacy, that’s all there is to it,” said an unsmiling Megan Fox about her Dolce & Gabbana dress. The E! camera slithered down the bodies of Nicole Kidman (in black, bee-embroidered Alexander McQueen), Julianna Margulies (in see-through black lace Pucci), and Amy Adams (clingy golden beige Marchesa).Lena Dunham, creator and star of  “Girls,” discussed how her breasts kept shifting in her Zac Posen gown, and Jennifer Lawrence was  flogged on Twitter for the pouty-looking cups of her red Dior haute couture dress. And on top of everything, the accomplished actress had to struggle to pronounce “haute.”It can’t be fun being a trussed-up actress at the Globes — and it showed tonight in the many self-conscious moments on the red carpet. More than usual, the attention the actresses received for their clothes, or the grilling, seemed sexist. Shortly after the opening monologue by the show’s hosts, Amy Poehler and Tiny Fey, the cameras panned to the nominees for best supporting actor in a film, including Christoph Walz and Tommy Lee Jones. Would anyone have commented on Mr. Jones’s shaggy facial hair or Mr. Walzt’s glasses? Not a chance. The assumption is they are serious actors. And after all the frenzied attention on the female stars and the posing, looking at some regular guys was a relief.Each awards season brings the same type of observations: that the clothes are wearing the nominees and presenters; that the actresses are merely serving as billboards for designers and don’t have a clue how to walk in or wear their outfit; that the dresses generally don’t look youthful. This Globes red carpet seemed the worst on all counts.There were some beautiful dresses: Julianne Moore’s black-and-white Tom Ford gown with long sleeves and a low back, Ms. Kidman’s McQueen (the actress rarely gets it wrong), and Marion Cotillard’s ultra-simple red Dior dress, with minimal makeup.  Sofia Vergara looked gorgeous in her black beaded gown, and also at ease. Ms. Poehler’s black Stella McCartney pantsuit, worn on the red carpet, was also a nice change, if a bit too tight. I wish she had stayed in the pantsuit for the monologue.But the overall impression from the Globes red carpet was that the actresses and performers looked more vulnerable than ever in their duds. Like Taylor Swift and Lucy Liu, some had heavy trains or complicated skirts to haul around. Others, like Ms. Lawrence, had weird bodices (she slipped on a jacket once she sat down). Light or golden beige was perhaps the evening’s big fashion trend, with Amanda Seyfried, Jennifer Lopez and Ms. Adams in the neutral tone. But the effect was something of a collective washout, a blurring of individual personalities.— CATHY HORYNThe Golden Globe goes to “Argo.”
MIKE HALE: A crowning moment for Ben Affleck.
DAVE ITZKOFF: Victor Garber almost had his Anne Hathaway moment there, slipping into the on-stage ensemble at the last second.A talk with Zosia Mamet, an actress from “Girls,” on the Golden Globes red carpet.Zosia Mamet from “Girls.”“It’s a tough gig, if I was as brave and reckless as” her character on the show, “I would be wearing flats. But clearly I drank the Kool-Aid, I’m wearing the heels.”
Meanwhile, Chad Lowe has responded to Lena Dunham:Dearest @lenadunham YOU COMPLETE ME‚Äî Chad Lowe (@ichadlowe) 14 Jan 13— MELENA RYZIKHe wins for “Lincoln.”
MIKE HALE: “Lincoln” wins an award on its next to last chance, meaning that 4 of the 5 best-drama nominees have now won at least one significant award.
DAVE ITZKOFF: I’m startled just to hear what Day-Lewis’s natural speaking voice sounds like.
MIKE HALE: I have great respect for Steven Spielberg, but “humble”? Hmm.She wins for “Zero Dark Thirty.”
MIKE HALE: Spreading the wealth, after “Zero Dark Thirty” lost for director and screenplay. Best film drama is feeling wide open.The award goes to Les Misérables.
DAVE ITZKOFF: Before the “Les Miz” producers can speak, Anne Hathaway is jumping in to thank a manager she forgot earlier in her speech.
MIKE HALE: “Les Misérables” certainly picks up awards momentum tonight, though it has to be said that the comedy-musical field isnot very strong this time around.Jack Black, a nominee for best actor in a comedy for his performance as a murderous undertaker in “Bernie,” didn’t expect to win tonight (and he didn’t) but he went on to say the night before the awards:
“Anytime it gets a little more attention, I feel proud, because this was a special project, and it deserves to see the light of day. There’s plenty of projects that I do that I would like to just bury underground, I don’t want anyone to see it. This is one of the rare times, I’m like yeah, I want everyone to see it, if possible.”— MELENA RYZIKDavid O. Russell, the director of “Silver Linings Playbook,” discusses his film.David O. Russell on “Silver Linings Playbook.”In the press room, Jodie Foster addressed a reporter who told her that her Wikipedia page was already updated to say that she was retiring from acting, which Ms. Foster instantly denied. ” I could never stop acting,” she said. “I’m not retiring from acting.”But she added, “I’d like to be directing tomorrow.”— MELENA RYZIKHe wins for “Les Misérables.”
DAVE ITZKOFF:   I like Hugh Jackman’s joke about having to audition for his role in “Les Misérables.”
MIKE HALE: As always, he’s invincible when he sticks to musicals or Wolverine. You know that for just a moment, about 20 million people thought, “Wait, what was ‘Bernie’?”The Golden Globes goes to “Girls.”
MIKE HALE: Apparently Lena Dunham’s vision of life among 20-something women in New York plays better with foreign voters than it did with the TV academy.
DAVE ITZKOFF: Referencing a long-ago Oscars gaffe by Hilary Swank, Lena Dunham says, “I also promised myself that if I ever got this chance, I would thank Chad Lowe.”
MIKE HALE: Somewhere, Jesse James is saying, “Hey, what about me?”
DAVE ITZKOFF:  the motorbike guy, right?Victor Garber and Tate Donovan discuss their acting work in "Argo."Victor Garber and Tate Donovan from “Argo.”He wins for “Argo.”
DAVE ITZKOFF: Affleck, much discussed for his Oscars snub earlier this week, says he doesn’t much care what award his name appears on, and that it’s an honor to be mentioned along others who were – and were not – nominated this year.
MIKE HALE:  The developing story here is the “Lincoln” shutout — 0 for 5, I believe, with actor and film to go?DAVE ITZKOFF: “The Cecil B. DeMille Award says every bit as much about the presenter as it does about the recipient” – Robert Downey Jr. presenting said award to Jodie Foster.
MIKE HALE:  How many times can Robert Downey Jr. get away with the it’s-all-about-me shtick? I think this might be where it jumps the shark.
DAVE ITZKOFF:   How thrilled is Molly Shannon that Jodie Foster has begun her acceptance speech by quoting one of her “SNL” routines? Jodie Foster: “I’m just going to put it out there, loud and proud… I am, uh, single.” She added, “You guys might be surprised, but I am not Honey Boo-Boo Child … my reality show would be so boring.”  We’re seeing lots of genuine tears in the audience. “Jodie Foster was here. I still am,” she says in conclusion. You could see, but not hear, Robert Downey Jr. saying “wow” to Jodie Foster at the end of that speech. That may be the best articulation of the moment.
MIKE HALE: Well, there’s always more latitude in lifetime-achievement speeches, for better or worse. It wasn’t Morgan Freeman, but it was as heartfelt as it was incoherent. And it made us forget that her career montage included “Nell.”
DAVE ITZKOFF: According to the Golden Globes Twitter feed: “From the pressroom: Jodie Foster says that she’s not retiring from acting. She’s looking forward to directing more.”The director Michael Haneke discusses "Amour."Michael Haneke, the director of “Amour.”She wins for “Girls.”
MIKE HALE:  After an awfully unfunny presentation by Jason Bateman and Aziz Ansari. That makes “Parks and Recreation” 1 for 2 in the hosting arena.
DAVE ITZKOFF: “I thought I was going to be a cooler customer if this ever happened,” says a genuinely touched Lena Dunham as she accepts the award.
MIKE HALE: Lena Dunham makes the evening less funny by robbing us of either a Fey or Poehler victory in the category.The award goes to “Brave.”
DAVE ITZKOFF: Sacha Baron Cohen appears to be in character as “Sacha Baron Cohen” as he riffs on such “Les Miserables” co-stars as “Hugh Jackman.”
He adds, with no inflection, that the four months of singing lessons given to Russell Crowe were “well spent.”
MIKE HALE:  Sacha Baron Cohen supplies a little Gervais juice to the proceedings.
DAVE ITZKOFF:  His joke about Anne Hathaway’s wardrobe malfunction was a dud.An interview with Mandy Patinkin, an actor on "Homeland."An interview with Mandy Patinkin from “Homeland.”Blinking back tear as she grinned and held her trophy in the press room, Anne Hathaway talked of her overriding love for “Les Miz.”
“I honestly would’ve played a musket,” she said.— MELENA RYZIK In the press room, Jennifer Lawrence addressed early critics of “Silver Linings Playbook” who felt she was too young to play the love interest to Bradley Cooper:“I was wrong for the part! I was way too young, but I guess we turned that around. Fixed it in post.”The director, David O. Russell, has an unusual style in which he yells lines at his actors as the cameras roll, but sometimes they don’t need his assistance. Of a pivotal scene in which she tells off Robert De Niro, Ms. Lawrence said: “It was the first take.”— MELENA RYZIKShe wins for “Homeland.”
 MIKE HALE: Claire Danes wins, deservingly, in the category with more deserving nominees than any other.
DAVE ITZKOFF:  The juggernaut at tonight’s show isn’t a particular series, movies, studio or producer, per se — it seems to be Showtime.
MIKE HALE: Did I imagine this, or did neither Claire Danes nor Damian Lewis mention the other by name in their acceptance speeches?
DAVE ITZKOFF:  I think you’re right – they went with the more general thank-yous. You never know if there’s deeper meaning to be read into that, or if it’s that no one takes these hasty speeches all too seriously.
MIKE HALE: You’re right that Showtime has done well, though don’t forget that HBO is right behind with its three awards (if I’m counting correctly) for “Game Change.”The award goes to “Amour.”DAVE ITZKOFF: Very sweet of Stallone and Schwarzenegger to jointly present the best foreign film award.
MIKE HALE: Second-biggest lock of the night.He wins for “House of Lies.”
DAVE ITZKOFF: :  Definitely did not see that Don Cheadle win coming, even if the Golden Globes Twitter feed gave it away a few seconds in advance.
MIKE HALE: After winning a writing award at the Emmys, Louis C.K. misses his only chance this evening to go onstage and emphasize the embarrassing fact that his show isn’t nominated for best comedy.“My inspiration normally comes from heartbreak, but I don’t think I’m ever going to be devastated again” — Adele, the winner for best song and new mother, in the press room.— MELENA RYZIKHe wins for  “Django Unchained.”
DAVE ITZKOFF: Get ready for a crazy victory speech.  The award was posted on the Golden Globes Twitter feed a few seconds before it was said on air, strangely.
MIKE HALE: This should only intensify the debate about the repeated use of a certain racial epithet in the film.
DAVE ITZKOFF:  Well, far fewer R-Rated words than I would have expected from a Tarantino monologue!She wins for “Les Misérables.”
DAVE ITZKOFF: And the first word to emerge from Anne Hathaway at the moment of her much anticipated victory is “Blergh.” Her tribute to fellow nominee Sally Field, nodding to her roles from “The Flying Nun” through “Forrest Gump” is rather touching, though.
MIKE HALE: Having failed to win any major awards for being brilliant in “Rachel Getting Married,” she breaks through for Fantine.
DAVE ITZKOFF: Hey is anyone else noticing that the Golden Globes twitter feed is announcing the winner before they say it on TV?Kevin Costner says he expects to make another western. “I think they are our Shakespeare,” he said in the press room. “I never do westerns for the shootouts, I do them for the language.”  “The shootout has to happen,” he added, “but I like them best for the language and the history.— MELENA RYZIKHe wins best supporting actor for “Game Change.”A talk with Judd Apatow, the producer of the series “Girls.”An interview with Judd Apatow, at the Globes as the producer of “Girls.”Best composer winner Mychael Danna, who has known Ang Lee for 15 years, worked with him before, and said he was attached to “Life of Pi” from its inception four years ago, said he nonetheless agreed with Mr. Lee’s worries that the book adaptation was going to be un-filmable, let alone made in 3D.“We all felt that way up until about a month and a half ago,” he said on the red carpet. “It’s a landmark film and when you do that, it’s dangerous and there are some exciting moments when you wonder if it’s all going to hold together.”“You make this up as you go along,” he added. “There’s nothing to reference, there’s no film like this. We tried everything, every possibility, to hone in on what the best way of telling the story is.”Mr. Danna is also an Oscar nominee for his work.— MELENA RYZIKShe wins for  “Silver Linings Playbook.”MIKE HALE: Wonder what some of the played-off winners are thinking, watching the longest presentation in awards-show history.
DAVE ITZKOFF: Enjoying the joyous bit between Kristen Wiig and Will Ferrell, though their on-the-spot improv recalls a similar bit that Wiig and Fred Armisen did regularly on “Weekend Update.” “What does it say?” Jennifer Lawrence asks, pretending to read the side of her trophy. “I beat Meryl!” She also thanks producer Harvey Weinstein for “killing whoever you had to kill.”
MIKE HALE: Gutsy, beginning your first major acceptance speech with a jab at Meryl Streep.
DAVE ITZKOFF: You couldn’t do this at the Oscars, that’s for sure. There does seem to be some online backlash to Jennifer Lawrence’s Meryl Streep quip.DAVE ITZKOFF: And here to put aside the memory of Costner’s speech – Bill Clinton!
MIKE HALE: The camera immediately swung from Bill Clinton to George Clooney. Morgan Freeman must not be there.
DAVE ITZKOFF: “What an exciting special guest – that was Hillary Clinton’s husband,” says Hillary fan Amy Poehler.
MIKE HALE: Tina Fey in Johnny Depp drag is almost as pretty as Johnny Depp.He wins for “Hatfields and McCoys.”
MIKE HALE: No expression of the face of Benedict Cumberbatch, who also lost this category to Kevin Costner at the Emmys.
DAVE ITZKOFF: Do I correctly recall that Costner also gave an inscrutable victory speech at the Emmys?The award goes to “Skyfall” from “Skyfall.”
DAVE ITZKOFF:  The portions of Adele’s speech that I can decipher are very naughty!
MIKE HALE: Christoph Waltz, Damian Lewis, Adele: the accents are ahead so far.The award goes to Mychael Danna.
MIKE HALE: Was it just me, or did the nominees all sound like the same piece of music?
DAVE ITZKOFF: You still know a John Williams score when you hear it. It always sounds like Superman’s about to take off somewhere.DAVE ITZKOFF: There’s big applause in the room for Tony Mendez, the real-life CIA officer played by Ben Affleck in “Argo.” He’s up to introduce the movie with John Goodman.“In no way was this a biopic and in no way was this character assisination. This was a story about our political process.” Julianne Moore, the star of “Game Change,” said about criticism over her portrayal of Sarah Palin.— MELENA RYZIKMIKE HALE: Amid the brewing discussion of on-screen violence, the award for best drama goes to a show that killed off 200 C.I.A. personnel in its season finale.
DAVE ITZKOFF:  And if you haven’t been watching “Homeland,” producer Alex Gansa just unloaded a serious bunch of spoilers on you. So you’ve got that to look forward to.
MIKE HALE: My philosophy: once it’s out there, it’s out there. Which reminds me, did you hear about the “Downton Abbey” holiday special …
DAVE ITZKOFF:  !!!!The award goes to “Homeland.”He wins for “Homeland.”
DAVE ITZKOFF: The Emmy momentum continues.
MIKE HALE: The first of multiple victories for “Homeland” tonight, most likely.DAVE ITZKOFF: Tina and Amy welcome us back to the show by informing us that the Hollywood Foreign Press Association chooses its president in the same manner that “The Hunger Games” chooses its winner.  Dr. Aida Takla-O’Reilly: “I know that Jeffrey Katzenberg will never forget my name, because he never knew it in the first place.”
MIKE HALE: Hey, that was a pretty good line about Katzenberg.On the red carpet, the best supporting actor winner Christoph Waltz said “Django Unchained” director Quentin Tarantino is not always the motor-mouthed filmmaker that fans may expect. “There is not one mood, one Quentin,” he said. “Quentin knows how to direct, and that doesn’t mean he just tells people what to do. He can create a mood and he can create an atmosphere, and it’s always in the interest of the work – even though it might, for an outsider, not look like that all the time.”Mr. Waltz also said he doesn’t really treat award shows as reality. “They’re not reality,” he said. “But they don’t have to be. We don’t need to drag everything onto reality. That’s a whole other discussion, what would that be anyway? It’s fine as it is, I enjoy the unreality. Why would I spoil my fun? It’s a whole other world here.”— MELENA RYZIKThe actress wins for “Game Change.” MIKE HALE: Biggest lock of the night. Wait, is she still doing Sarah Palin? Sounds like a stump speech.
DAVE ITZKOFF:  She’s getting played off her stump speech apparently. How about Amy Poehler crashing the lineup of nominees? She and Tina can truly do no wrong tonight.The award goes to “Game Change.”
MIKE HALE: Once again, the mediocre HBO movie wins because people were so impressed by Julianne Moore’s Sarah Palin impersonation. Crazy that “Sherlock” wasn’t nominated.
DAVE ITZKOFF: There’s still time for Benedict Cumberbatch to lose to Dennis Quaid later tonight.She wins for “Downton Abbey.”DAVE ITZKOFF: I can’t say enough good things about that Tina Fey-Amy Poehler opening.  How can we cover a live awards show if it’s genuinely great?
MIKE HALE: Exactly the opening the networks could wish for: a series of mostly funny lines, delivered with polish but not a whole lot of personality. (And that didn’t offend anyone present.)
DAVE ITZKOFF: I’m still a little uneasy about a show that puts Mel Gibson in the front-most table, but the night is young.
MIKE HALE: We start with a minor upset Christoph Waltz over his “Django Unchained” castmate, Leonardo DiCaprio. Going back to the opening: did anyone else think that the one off note was Tina Fey’s line to Lena Dunham about the nudity in “Girls”? A little odd and condescending?
DAVE ITZKOFF: I’d like to believe they’re all supportive pals behind the scenes.
MIKE HALE:  Hmm. I’ll reserve judgement on that.He wins for ‘Django Unchained.”The center pit of the ballroom was mogul alley. Disney CEO Bob Iger, looking dapper in a velvet jacket, schmoozed with News Corporation heavy Rupert Murdoch; Jim Gianopulos of 20th Century Fox greeted Rob Friedman, the top movie executive at Lionsgate. The Oracle heiress Megan Ellison, whose millions funded “Zero Dark Thirty” and “The Master” was there, looking a little out of place in pants. Bonnie Hammer, the NBC Universal cable channel chieftan, waived hello to Julie Chen, the TV personality and wife of CBS CEO Leslie Moonves, who was smiling nearby.The stars, meanwhile, were caught upstairs by the bar. Eddie Redmayne of “Les Miserables” palled around with Robert Pattinson; Nicole Kidman and her husband, the singer and soon-to-be “American Idol” host Keith Urban, tried unsuccessfully to make their way to the stairs and instead spotted a shortcut through the tables.— BROOKS BARNESDAVE ITZKOFF:  First joke of the night. Tina: “I wish you could feel the excitement.” Amy: “You can smell the pills from here.” Tina: “Ricky Gervais could not be here tonight because he is technically no longer in show business.” Great interplay and back-and-forth between the two hostesses so far.  Amy Poehler on “Zero Dark Thirty” (and Kathryn Bigelow): “When it comes to torture, I trust the woman who was married to James Cameron for three years.” Wow, that one cut close to the bone.
MIKE HALE:  Best line of the night so far in my book: comparing the Hollywood Foreign Press Association to a venereal disease. The Cameron joke was tricky: it had to be funny enough to glide us past the controversy over the depiction of torture.Lucy Liu’s blue Carolina Herrera dress covered in large flowers was a gutsy, yet refreshing move for the red carpet, especially among the sea of red, black and metallic looks. Other risk-takers included: Sienna Miller in an Erdem 1960s-inspired two piece; Julianna Margulies’s boudoir-inspired Pucci gown; and Rachel Weisz in a barely there Louis Vuitton dress with polka dots.Jessica Chastain, a newly minted red carpet favorite, wore a halter “seafoam” Calvin Klein dress, and Amy Adams, who wore a “ballet pink” Marchesa creation, helped extend the pastel trend shelf life.— SIMONE OLIVERDAVE ITZKOFF:  There are only two phases to this year’s Golden Globes as far as I’m concerned: seeing how hosts Tina Fey and Amy Poehler open the show, and then I suppose the part where they give out the awards. Anything you’re looking forward to or looking out for, Mike?MIKE HALE: It will be interesting to see whether the two NBC stars, neither of whom has been shy about tweaking her own network in the past, dish it out to Cabletown tonight. But I’m sure we can expect a politer show overall than the one Ricky Gervais presided over.DI: They’d better get inside soon – the weather looks positively apocalyptic, to judge from NBC’s coverage.
MH:   You’re sure that steely gray wasn’t just Jay Leno’s hair?A chat with the actor Jason Clarke, appearing in “Zero Dark Thirty.”A chat with the actor Jason Clarke, appearing in “Zero Dark Thirty.”Orang-y red seems to be the color for the starlet gowns this year (Jennifer Lawrence), with older actresses (Sally Field, Helen Hunt) in blues and purples. Only the publicists seem dressed for the weather. Somebody was just frantically rolling a lint off the back of Steven Spielberg as he waited to go on camera with NBC. A beaming Howard Stringer, the former Sony chief, came up and put his arm around Mr. Spielberg, whose “Lincoln” is a rival tonight to Sony’s “Zero Dark thirty.” A crowd of party attendees (and a few security guards) crowded the Hilton’s lobby bar, where a TV was tuned to the football game. To get onto the red carpet, stars were forced to walk through a very narrow walkway that by 3:55 made them look like cattle, with Emily Blunt packed shoulder to shoulder with Jim Gianopulos with John Krasinski. The air conditioning seemed to be on in the press rooms but Globes staffers didn’t much seem to care; when a male reporter asked a staffer if the heat could be turned on, the staff pointed to a thermostat on the wall and said, “Who holds your hand at home?”— BROOKS BARNESJennifer Lawrence clearly does not know what haute means.— Eric Wilson (@EricWilsonNYT) 14 Jan 13An interview with Katherine Sarafian and Mark Andrews, the producer and the director of the animated film “Brave.”
An interview with Katherine Sarafian and Mark Andrews, the producer and the director of the animated film “Brave.”The red carpet pre-game on Twitter this evening was abuzz with rumors and designer-actor match making. Early on Debra Messing, one of tonight’s presenters, arrived in a safe black Donna Karan gown, but the jarring contrast of Ryan Seacrest’s tuxedo and lapels stole her spotlight.Loose and relaxed hair are a popular tonight. The days of prom helmet hair and structured up-dos are dying fast. Amy Adams, Nicole Richie and Kelly Osbourne all wore interpretations of finger waves. Amy Poehler, wearing Stella McCartney, was among those who favored a side ponytail (and a plunging neckline). Nicole Richie toke the biggest beauty risk so far matching blue eye shadow with her blue Naeem Kahn gown.Claire Danes wore a red Versace halter dress, loose curls and smokey eyes, showing off her curvy post-baby frame. Her look echoed Jennifer Lawrence’s 2001 Calvin Klein dress. Ms. Lawrence chose red again, and was a standout in Dior haute couture with a silver belt and origami details on the bust.The ear cuff, an unlikely red carpet accessory, has made two appearances, but generally the accessories have been minimal.— SIMONE OLIVEROne trend tonight is full-on glamour, with Tina Fey in L’Wren Scott, Katharine McPhee in plunging Theyskens Theory, Morena Baccarin in Valentino couture, and Lena Dunham in Zac Posen. And sequins, sequins, sequins: Nicole Richie in Naeem Khan, Julianne Hough in Monique Lhuillier and Jodie Foster in glittering navy Armani.— STUART EMMRICHThe black-tie inspired looks are on trend for the season. Lena in Zac, Katharine McPhee in Theory and now Tina Fey.— Eric Wilson (@EricWilsonNYT) 13 Jan 13I predicted correctly! Lena Dunham is wearing Zac Posen, her former babysitter. #goldenglobes
— stuart emmrich (@StuartEmmrichNY) 13 Jan 13So Lena Dunham is up on the carpet, talking about making the cleavage look right. TMI? Nerves? Doesn’t care?
— Cathy Horyn (@CathyHorynNYT) 13 Jan 13Claire Danes, a new mother, looks great in form-fitting Versace red. But that raccoon-like eye makeup is a little scary. #goldenglobes
— stuart emmrich (@StuartEmmrichNY) 13 Jan 13Lena Dunham looks great, but Ryan never asked who she is wearing? Isn’t that his only function for the evening? #goldenglobes— stuart emmrich (@StuartEmmrichNY) 13 Jan 13Zooey Deschanel arrives with @Pinterest-worthy nails again. #goldenglobes #redcarpet #beauty #nailart
— Simone S. Oliver (@SimoneSOliver) 13 Jan 13“It’s tight, it’s lacy, that’s all there is to it.” Megan Fox sums up her Dolce. She’s really into it.— Cathy Horyn (@CathyHorynNYT) 13 Jan 13BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. — As (freezing) female stars started making their way down the red carpet with bare shoulders and backs, the scene just out of camera shot was decidedly less glamorous. When a woman struggling to carry two large boxes of equipment was stopped by security guards, she said, “All I know is that I got an emergency call for spray tanning, and I dropped everything and came.” Two women, wearing elaborate ball gowns, stood slouched by a heat lamp and smoked cigarettes. Julia Louis-Dreyfus, a nominee for best actress in a TV comedy, gave a young man in a headset a you’ve-got-to-be-kidding-me look as she tried to make her way to the red carpet through a circuitous tangle of gates. A woman (publicist?) shouted at what appeared to be an underling: “What do you MEAN you left the credential at the office?”— BROOKS BARNESThe Golden Globes ceremony is really the culmination of several days of festivities, when nominees and hangers-on work a circuit of cocktail hours, gala benefits, teas and soirees at the homes of agents and studio bosses, celebrating themselves and each other.“I go to more parties this week than I do all year,” Jack Black, a Globes best actor nominee for the dark comedy “Bernie,” said at a brunch on Saturday in honor of the Independent Spirit Awards  (where he is also a nominee). “My agent my publicist, they say, ‘you really should go.’ And I go. I think it’s to give a little doff of the cap, and it would be rude not to. They gave me some sweet sugar, a nomination, and then I’m not gonna come to their party? Of course you go to their party. It’s a way to say thank you, to break bread with the people who gave you a little sweet goose.”Christoph Waltz, a Globes and Oscar best supporting actor nominee for Quentin Tarantino’s “Django Unchained” (he already has a Globe and an Oscar for his first collaboration with Mr. Tarantino in “Inglourious Basterds”), gleefully made the rounds again. “I’m not overburdened,” he said, at the first of many parties. “I don’t treat it as reality. It’s much more fun that way. It’s a phenomenon!”But for many in Hollywood, it is a stressful weekend. “I’m in work mode right now,” said the stylist Rachel Zoe. She still turned up at the annual W Magazine party, hosted by the editor Stefano Tonchi and the writer Lynn Hirschberg, at the Chateau Marmont on Friday night. “This is my only one,” Ms. Zoe said, adding, “Tomorrow is fittings all day, until 2 in the morning.”— MELENA RYZIKBEVERLY HILLS, Calif.—A little something always goes wrong at the “Golden Globes.” It’s part of a “you can’t get there from here” quality that has hung over what Globes insiders call “the day of”—as in “the day of the show”—forever. This year, a big hang-up involved the Goldenglobes.org Web site, which wasn’t responding to visitors around 2:30 p.m. on Sunday. A spokeswoman for the Globes said it appeared to be a problem with some Amazon servers. By 2:53 or so, the Web site, though a little slow, was winking back into view. That left only little hitches, like the security folks who ask to see your credential as you head for the line to pick up your credential. But they were all very nice, and seemed to understand when those seeking credentials explained the circularity of it all.— MICHAEL CIEPLYMany of tonight’s nominees are a fashion designer’s dream. Among them: Jessica Chastain (“Zero Dark Thirty”), Marion Cotillard (“Rust and Bone”), Naomi Watts (“The Impossible”), Jennifer Lawrence (“Silver Linings Playbook”), Anne Hathaway (“Les Misérables”), Claire Danes (“Homeland’) and Michelle Dockery (“Downton Abbey”). PhotoJessica Chastain is becoming a red carpet favorite. She wore a white, beaded Givenchy dress to the Golden Globes last year.Credit Mario Anzuoni/ReutersWho will be this year’s breakout red carpet star — the 2013 successor to Natalie Portman and Rooney Mara?  Perennial favorites (and fellow Aussies) Nicole Kidman and Naomi Watts can be counted on to turn out the glamour. And Ms. Chastain has emerged the past two years as a red carpet favorite. (Last year she wore a white, beaded Givenchy to the Globes and followed that up with a dramatic black and gold gown by Alexander McQueen at the Oscars.) But I think a lot of eyes will be on the rising star Ms. Lawrence. In fact, given that she was one of the front row guests at the Raf Simons debut couture collection for Dior this summer, which got rave reviews, I wonder if she will wear one of that designer’s gowns tonight.I’m also intrigued to see what Lena Dunham wears tonight. She wore a surprisingly dowdy Prada gown to the Emmys in September, but has shown a keen fashion sense at other events. Maybe she’ll wear Zac Posen, like she did at the AFI Awards this week. He knows how to celebrate youth and, as a family friend (and her former babysitter), he designed the dress she wore to her high school graduation from St. Ann’s, a Brooklyn school he had earlier attended. Might they reprise
that look tonight?— STUART EMMRICHAt one of the many parties this weekend in advance of the Golden Globes, the stylist Rachel Zoe predicted “a lot of color and some metallics, for sure” on the red carpet. Also sure to be on view at the Globes, which are being handed out tonight: adorably loopy behavior from the hosts, Tina Fey and Amy Poehler (follow along with their drinking game here) and a scoreboard of winners and losers that, especially in the TV categories, resembles years past. (“Modern Family” may be a perennial winner.) And look for jockeying by newly minted Oscar nominees. Keenly aware that their speeches and behavior might count in the second round of Academy voting, they’ll be on their best behavior. Follow along here on The Carpetbagger for everything from red-carpet looks to statuette status reports.— MELENA RYZIKCara Buckley is your guide on the red carpet to the news and the nonsense of awards season, covering the Golden Globes, the Oscars and more. The Carpetbagger will take a look at films and the people who make and star in them. She's joined by Michael Cieply and Brooks Barnes in Los Angeles, Larry Rohter on foreign-language films and documentaries, Mekado Murphy on the  technical craft of filmmaking and Rachel Lee Harris on costume design. Tips are always welcome. Advertisement