AdvertisementSupported byScene CityOlivier Rousteing hosted a party at the Top of the Standard, followed by Rihanna’s blowout at Up & Down. 18 PhotosView Slide Show ›Rebecca Smeyne for The New York TimesBy Ben DetrickThe Met Gala was a prelude to an evening of after-parties that vied for the fickle attention spans of its boldfaced attendees.While the fashion elite packed the Versace soiree at the Mark hotel, which featured a performance by Migos, Hollywood types sought action at the Top of the Standard, where Olivier Rousteing hosted a post-midnight rush that included the actors Gabrielle Union, Justin Theroux, Emma Stone and Priyanka Chopra. Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez took to the dance floor as songs from Missy Elliott and Prince thumped. Jared Leto, who meandered the room in a biblical Gucci ensemble, succinctly described the evening as “fantastic” and breezed onward. Tiffany Haddish also relished the theological theme. “I thought it was right in line with my career,” she said, wearing a white cashmere Brandon Maxwell top. “God got me where I’m at. Over by the bar, Michael B. Jordan, who reunited with his fellow “Black Panther” star Daniel Kaluuya, had swapped his pinstripe Off-White suit for a biceps-flaunting tee. “It’s one big room of awkwardness, but it’s always fun,” he said of the Met Gala. When Mr. Jordan pulled out a credit card, he was informed it was an open bar. “Not for the shots we’re getting,” he said. 98 PhotosView Slide Show ›Damon Winter/The New York TimesAt 2 a.m., there was a migration to Up & Down, a nearby club on 14th Street, where Rihanna was hosting a blowout. With hip-hop and reggae throbbing, waiters forded the crowd to deliver sparkler-topped Champagne bottles to V.I.P. archipelagoes. A D.J. helpfully bellowed tipsheet names over the microphone: Diddy, Zoe Kravitz, Pharrell Williams, Donald Glover, Mary J. Blige, 2 Chainz (who, earlier, had proposed to Kesha Ward on the red carpet). The fashion flock descended here, too, with Alexander Wang, Virgil Abloh and Kendall Jenner in the fray. Bella Hadid perched on a platform with Sheck Wes, the young Harlem rapper. Even Mr. Rousteing, the creative director at Balmain, trekked over from his own party. “I love Rihanna and enjoy spending the night with her,” he said, wearing a shiny shirt of his own design. “Her looks were so strong. She’s writing the future, and I’m proud to be here with her.” Rihanna, the uncontested ruler of the Met Gala, had formed her own congregation. And moments after 4 a.m., she exited with her customary army of beefy guards and ended it.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS