Remarkable images from 2017, from Donald Trump Jr. to Nicki Minaj to Idris Elba to this one chihuahua.The 62nd International Debutante Ball held at the Pierre Hotel.CreditDina Litovsky for The New York TimesSupported bySelected by Eve Lyons and Elizabeth BristowIntroduction by Bonnie WertheimSometimes our pictures tell the whole story.In February, the photographer George Etheredge visited Donald Trump Jr. at his father’s 230-acre estate in Bedford, N.Y. The president’s son is a known hunter and outdoor enthusiast, but Mr. Etheredge felt drawn to more of a “Happy Gilmore” image, of Mr. Trump surveying the family’s Bedminster, N.J., green with a golf club and cart.After spending some time at the Trump family’s Westchester property, Mr. Etheredge’s vision changed. “I saw this stump, and I thought it would be kind of perfect,” he said. His instincts were good: The picture was swiftly embraced by the internet and became a phenomenon in its own right, independent of the deeply reported article it accompanied.Not every great picture we publish becomes a meme, but each one helps shape the way our readers understand the world. Here are some of our favorites from a year full of famous faces, furry friends, fashion and frivolity.Jake Michaels followed the N.B.A.’s newest “villain,” who is building an empire among the Bay Area’s techies.Ryan Shorosky captured three nights of rodeo and cowboy style at Madison Square Garden.Isak Tiner shot portraits of Drew Barrymore, who shared her beauty routine with Times readers earlier this year.Bathing, brushing and hugging are all in a day’s work at the annual Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, where Jonno Rattman took portraits of the entrants and their humans.Marcy Swingle stationed herself outside the shows at New York Fashion Week in February, waiting for people like the model Hanne Gaby Odiele to make stylish entrances and exits.Landon Nordeman also captured the fashion week madness, including at Thom Browne.More than two years after “Mad Men,” Jon Hamm spoke about his next act and posed for Peter Ash Lee.When Jeff Koons announced his collaboration with Louis Vuitton, Isak Tiner visited his studio to photograph the man and his bags.The Youth America Grand Prix, a student dance competition, held its April 13 gala at Lincoln Center. Rebecca Smeyne was there to catch all the moves.Chris Kraus, the author of “I Love Dick,” has lived in Los Angeles since 1995, but the first chapter of her life was set in the Bronx. Earlier this year, Sasha Arutyunova took her portrait at the New York Botanical Garden.More than two decades after “Twin Peaks” set off a cultural explosion, Kyle MacLachlan reunited with David Lynch and a beloved character. Eric Chakeen took some appropriately surreal portraits of the actor.Landon Nordeman headed to the Costume Institute in May, where celebrities and members of the fashion set honored the wildly imaginative designer Rei Kawakubo.Rebecca Smeyne camped outside of the Carlyle hotel to capture first glimpses of celebrities before the Met Gala. Jessica Lehrman followed Nas during an evening of Caribbean food and heavy beats.Nathan Bajar took this portrait of Juliana Huxtable, a D.J., writer, night-life host and model.Drew Anthony Smith documented street style at the Pitchfork Music Festival, focusing his attention on the performers themselves.Andre D. Wagner photographed Dapper Dan, the designer whose Harlem boutique was sued out of existence 25 years ago and who, this year, became a Gucci collaborator.To illustrate the anxiety that Americans are feeling in growing numbers, Devin Yalkin photographed frenetic scenes in New York City.Nadine Ijewere photographed Eric Underwood, the American-born star of the Royal Ballet in London, for the cover of Men’s Style.Landon Nordeman photographed designers and models at the CFDA awards, where Raf Simons swept the men’s wear and women’s wear categories.Valerio Mezzanotti was there to witness the madness of fashion month, including the judo kicks at Emporio Armani in Milan.Amy Lombard took Bridget Everett’s portrait this summer. The comedian, actress and musician shared the items she likes to splurge on, including beautifully packaged dry shampoo and raw dog food.Daniel Arnold shadowed the “Baby Driver” star Ansel Elgort during a very normal, un-celebrity-like day in New York.Ryan Shorosky visited a ranch in the high desert of Nevada, where prison inmates train wild horses in a rare kind of symbiotic rehabilitation. Petra Collins drew Samuel L. Jackson into her pastel-colored world ahead of his role in “The Hitman’s Bodyguard.”Amy Lombard photographed the year’s breakout hip-hop star, Cardi B, before a performance at MoMA PS1.Molly Matalon photographed the reality television star EJ Johnson at home. “There wasn’t any show that profiled a young person of color with a different sexual orientation living their life,” the former “Rich Kids of Beverly Hills” star said.The 20-year-old YouTube megastar Jake Paul set the internet ablaze this year. Jake Michaels photographed him dealing in flames offline.Deidre Schoo spent a weekend at Brooklyn’s Afropunk Festival, where bold graphics and bright colors made for a visual feast. Dolly Faibyshev spent some time backstage with Karlie Kloss before the Brandon Maxwell spring 2018 show.Vincent Tullo captured compelling details during the Oscar de la Renta spring 2018 show.Shawn Brackbill observed the backstage shuffle at Coach during New York Fashion Week.Damon Winter took portraits of the actor Idris Elba, whom the movie producer Amy Pascal described as “the best version of masculinity.” Damien Maloney took this ethereal portrait of Susan Fowler, the whistle-blower whose blog post heralded a reckoning at Uber. Valerio Mezzanotti oversaw the making of the Balmain show during Paris Fashion Week.He also watched models prepare for the runway at Vivienne Westwood.And he caught the action on the runway at Thom Browne.Jake Michaels focused his lens on Tom Hanks, who had a lot to say about Donald J. Trump and Harvey Weinstein.George Etheredge accompanied the rapper French Montana on a shopping spree in the Bronx.Zak Krevitt and Thomas McCarty photographed drag queens who are embracing their goth side.Devin Yalkin, who photographed Sam Siatta, a war veteran, for The New York Times Magazine last year, was there for Mr. Siatta’s wedding day in October.On the eve of a record-breaking auction at Christie’s, Andrew White photographed 2 Chainz as he sized up the art.Kayana Szymczak spent time with women who make cheese for a living — and with their little goats, too.Eric Chakeen photographed Bobby Cannavale for Men’s Style.We surveyed some of the world’s most festive holiday windows. Dmitry Kostyukov shot the decorations at Le Bon Marché in Paris. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS