AdvertisementSupported byBy Lela Moore and Julia SimonHere are the top 10 comments of the week on our digital platforms, as selected by our readers and the journalists who moderate nearly every comment. Some comments were edited for length and clarity.1. I have had young-onset Parkinson’s disease for 15 years, with symptoms appearing at the age of 32. With a PhD from UC Berkeley and a successful career in the pharmaceutical and medical device industry, I never dreamed of a world in which I was essentially un-insurable — until it happened to me in 2012.My symptoms had progressed to a point where I could no longer work, and to where I needed a surgical procedure called deep brain stimulation (DBS). DBS was not economically feasible until I participated in California’s [Affordable Care Act]-mandated insurance market, Covered California, in 2014.I am now feeling much better and am employed again, largely due to the ACA.I cannot imagine this flawed bill is a solution to the widely understood (and solvable) issues with the ACA. Any legislation that does not explicitly bring those with pre-existing conditions “under the tent” can only be a retreat and puts the lives of millions of Americans in jeopardy.— Chris in San Francisco, reacting to an article about the vote yesterday by the House of Representatives to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.This comment received more than 300 reader recommendations. 2. Obamacare imposed onerous federal mandates on insurers and employers which has had the effect of imposing an additional tax on those of us actually paying federal income taxes. My health insurance premiums, deductibles and out of pocket expenses have increased 2 to 3 times what they were before Obamacare was enacted.The Republican health care plan allows for more flexibility in insurance coverage offered and passes on the additional expense to those with higher risk. This is the free market at work and how risk should be allocated. Health care is not an inalienable right and each of us is individually responsible for our own health.— Iconoclast Texan in Houston.This comment received more than 130 reader recommendations.3. I was reading this article and imagining myself as a very scared teenager new to driving. I would have a hard time complying with the police, even if I was desperately trying, because they’re shouting at me and they have guns pointed at me. I would be making all kinds of stupid decisions with the car and may appear to be disobeying their orders.The police need better training and tactics in how to deescalate a situation like this. Then maybe Jordan would be alive and the kids who were causing problems would be facing reasonable consequences for their actions.— Julia in Minneapolis, reacting to an article about Jordan Edwards, 15, who was shot to death by a police officer in Texas. 4. Every decent human being wants officers to be safe, well-trained, and accountable. The police officer did not follow regulations, but his fellow officers on the scene and his superiors are now making an honest effort to understand exactly what happened and act properly.— Ciambella Collins in Texas.5. Comey had an obligation to investigate the reasons why Clinton kept her emails on a private server while doing the public’s business. To blame Comey’s investigation for Clinton’s losing the election is one reason why Mrs. Clinton is not president today.Voters were suspicious of her behavior, saw her as divisive, and became tired of her blaming others for a mistake in judgment she alone made. Mrs. Clinton’s paranoia and unwillingness to communicate properly with voters is one reason why Donald Trump is president today.— PeterW in New York, reacting to an article about the F.B.I. director James B. Comey’s testimony to Congress concerning his effect on the 2016 election.This comment received more than 250 reader recommendations.6. From my own observations as a moderate Democrat who voted for Hillary in the early voting days in Texas, I can say very frankly that when Comey made his announcement on Oct. 28, I was shocked and actually regretting my vote (already cast). Clinton fatigue 100 percent overwhelmed me that day. The thought of more Congressional hearings in the first 100 days of her administration ... all that negativity. Not good.It’s certain that Comey would have affected my vote if it hadn’t already been cast. So I know from my own reaction that Comey’s action affected the feelings of others inclined to vote for her. I probably wouldn’t have voted at all. I believe that’s what happened here. That’s where she lost the votes.— Moderate in Texas.This comment received more than 400 reader recommendations.7. I know it’s easy for people to hate on the frivolity of celebrities, but I love The Met, and the Costume Institute has had spectacular exhibits every year. If you’re a fan of the arts (especially wearable arts), then the Met Gala is a fun spectator sport.— Patricia Chuson on The Times’ Facebook Page, responding to an article about the celebrity-studded Met Gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.8. What’s the point of not feeding the child who is hungry, hasn’t got the money to pay the debt, and still has the rest of the school day ahead of her? Does throwing out the food she was given before she reached the cashier save money? Is it given to another child?The answer to both questions is no so the lunch shaming not only doesn’t save money, it wastes food. Why not make lunch free for all so no one knows who qualifies for a free lunch?— Hen3ry in New York, reacting to an article about the practice in nearly half of all U.S. school districts of denying children food if their parents have not paid for their lunches. This comment received more than 600 reader recommendations and more than 25 reader responses.9. “Romeo & Juliet” revolved around a great and ironic tragedy. “13 Reasons Why,” on the other hand, portrays suicide as the ultimate way to punish those at whom you are mad or by whom you feel you have been wronged.In short, “Romeo & Juliet” illustrates the irony and waste of suicide, while “13 Reasons” celebrates its inherent power to bring heartache and guilt to others. That’s kind of a major difference.— John Parken in Jacksonville, Fla., reacting to an article about a new Netflix show, "13 Reasons Why,” that has been criticized by mental health professionals over its portrayal of teenage suicide. 10. As an owner of a very affectionate cat, this is nothing new. The love of a cat differs from the love of a dog, but it is love nevertheless. Sometimes I wake at night to notice my cat sleeps next to me, holding my hand between his paws, having the most content look on his face — that is true, unexpecting cat love at its finest!— Leena Viitanen on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about a study showing that cats will (mostly) choose human companionship over their food or toys. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS