AdvertisementSupported byScene City30 PhotosView Slide Show ›Dina Litovsky for The New York TimesBy Jacob BernsteinAfter the red carpet, the cocktails, the exhibition and the dinner, the Met Gala splintered into after-parties. It was an opportunity to change outfits.The first stop was the Mark hotel on the Upper East Side, where Michael Kors hosted several hundred, including former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Tommy Hilfiger.Katie Holmes arrived at around 11 p.m. after having switched out of her sparkly gown by Zac Posen into yet another princess dress, also by Mr. Posen, who escorted her.Where and when did she find the time to change?“I won’t tell,” Ms. Holmes said. “Got to keep some mystery.”The outfit swaps can be attributed to two things. First, most dresses worn to the Met Gala are not exactly easy to move around in. Second, in this social media age, designers and celebrities are looking to get as much bang for their buck.A quick scan of the room revealed numerous outfit changes. Mary-Kate Olsen began the night in a vintage Dior gown, while her sister Ashley wore John Galliano. Both had now abandoned those in favor of outfits that did not have trains and were somewhat less gothic. The model Karen Elson ditched her red tulle Dolce & Gabbana gown with an 18-karat gold filigree bustier in favor of something more basic and black, also by Dolce & Gabbana.Definitely better for dancing, especially with the R&B singer Miguel about to perform.Meanwhile, another after-party was taking place at Top of the Standard, made famous last year by an elevator feud between Solange and Jay Z. This year’s party (hosted by Yahoo Style, Sarah Jessica Parker and Katy Perry) was a little quieter, though no less star studded.Reese Witherspoon was by the window in a bright red Jason Wu dress with her “Hot Pursuit” co-star, Sofía Vergara (in Marchesa), and Ms. Vergara’s fiancé, Joe Manganiello.Across the way were the fashion designer Riccardo Tisci, the music producer Diplo and Madonna. Earlier, Madonna had worn a black floor-length Moschino gown with the name of her album “Rebel Heart” printed across the bottom. But now she wore an ’80s-inspired leather jacket with gold dollar signs across it as waitresses brought around sliders and vodka concoctions.Solange did not show up this year but was instead spotted dirty dancing at 3 a.m. with her husband, Alan Ferguson, at Up & Down on West 14th Street. The party was hosted by Rihanna, whose trampoline-size yellow dress earlier in the night practically broke the Internet.For her after-party, Rihanna rolled up to the club in a leave-nothing-to-the-imagination sheer black top. Inside, dancing to a D.J. who calls himself Mazurbate, was a cavalcade of celebrities and designers including Jessica Alba, Justin Bieber, Jennifer Lawrence, Grimes and Francisco Costa of Calvin Klein.When did you get here, a reporter asked Mr. Costa.“Good question,” he said, having long since lost Lorde, his celebrity bride for the evening. “I don’t even know.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS