AdvertisementSupported byStyles Q. and A.By Carrie SeimTom Lenk knows how to work a red carpet. It takes attitude, a loaded glue gun and, sometimes, a hoop skirt made from a garden hose.Since last year’s Met Gala, Mr. Lenk, a 40-year-old actor and comedian perhaps best known for his role in “Buffy the Vampire Slayer,” has been recreating and modeling red carpet looks using nothing but household junk and sly humor. He posts his confections on Instagram, to the delight of his 171,000 followers (and millions more viewers).Favorites have included the black-and-gold gown by Atelier Versace that Blake Lively wore to the Golden Globe Awards last month, reimagined with rubber snakes and Lay’s potato chip bags (20.2 million views); and the racy frock that Khloé Kardashian wore to the Angel Ball in New York last November, recrafted with Christmas lights and pipe cleaners (13.6 million views).The red carpet re-creations, which he calls Lenk Lewks for Less, fuse clever tailoring with perfectly calibrated poses, offering an uncanny if bargain-basement approximation of the couture original. It’s “Project Runway” meets “S.N.L.,” with a high dose of camp.Now, Mr. Lenk’s sartorial hobby is graduating to cable. The E! network has asked him to create his satirical outfits for its social media feeds during awards season, including live during the Oscars.The comedian spoke the other day from his atelier (a.k.a. his couch in West Hollywood, Calif.) while cataloging hair extensions in anticipation of the big night.Attempting to simul-craft the Oscars is quite a feat. How are you prepping? I’m looking at investing in glitter by the gallon at this point, because if the Golden Globes taught me anything, it’s always be prepared.Will you be crafting solo?I’ll have a team of assistants over to help me create looks live. And by assistants, I mean drunk friends with glue guns shoved into their hands. We’ll have craft bins and there will be an official red carpet here at my house made out of red towels. I already have a velvet rope made out of pool noodles and toilet plungers.Walk me through your process of creating a “lewk.” It basically just has to be reappropiated household stuff that’s not fabric, because it would be boring if I used fabric.Sometimes a dress comes down the red carpet and you’re like, “Eh, obvious choice.” I love when something pops out at me. I remember during the Golden Globes I was kind of lacking inspiration, feeling a little low-blood-sugar, then Kristen Wiig came out (in a white lace dress) and I was like, “Get the doilies, get the coffee filters, let’s do this!”How about the wigs? I won’t spend more than $20 on a wig. I could spend a lot of money on a fancy wig and it’ll look beautiful, but there’s no challenge in that.How many wigs do you own? Boxes. There’s one wig that’s been everyone. It’s been Barbra Streisand, Blake Lively, Mariah Carey. It’s like the sisterhood of the traveling wig.Are you mocking the celebrity-fashion culture or embracing it? Fashion takes itself so seriously, so it’s fun to say, “Oh yeah, I made this $50,000 dress for 50 cents out of Pringles cans and doggy chew toys.”But I can’t generally recreate something unless I really am a fan of it. I’m hoping designers and stylists can understand that. Even if it’s an outlandish look, I still think it’s interesting and cool in some way, otherwise I wouldn’t do it. And I’m not making fun of the celebrities, per se.Really?O.K. I was making fun of Mariah Carey in a couple of them. The woman wears lingerie to interviews. She can handle it.Where do you go for fashion inspiration? I don’t like to name drop, but I go to Marshalls and T. J. Maxx a lot. Sometimes if I’ve got crafter’s block — I can’t believe I just said that — I’ll wander the stores and let the materials speak to me. Or I’ll stroll the aisles in the Koontz Hardware in West Hollywood.What’s on your shopping list there? Safety breathing masks. They make a great B-cup.You’ve created about 150 lewks. Do you have a favorite? I loved the all-edible Sarah Jessica Pasta. I made the wig out of macaroni and the shirt was tortillas and Nilla wafers. I even crushed up Oreos for the smoky eye.How long do you spend making the outfits? It took me two episodes of “Project Runway” to make the macaroni wig. That’s how I measure time.How does crafting meld with your acting career? It’s liberating. There’s a creative end in sight each day, because as an actor, there’s sometimes no end in sight. Am I still up for the pilot of “New Girl”? I don’t know, but I’ve always been crafty.Have you gotten any feedback from the celebrities you imitate?I heard through friends that Lena Dunham enjoyed my version of her watercolor eye dress. I glued a Little Mermaid doll to my forehead for Lena’s body and used my own eyeball as the eye on her dress. Yes, I glued a Disney doll to my head in the name of art.The interview has been edited and condensed.Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS